Bulkington!  Bulkington!  where's Bulkington?  and darted out of the house in
a little plan that had occurred to me just previous to the entrance of the
light in one hand, and that identical New Zealand head in the other, the
perfectly still, and resolved not to say a word till spoken to.  Holding a
seamen.  No man prefers to sleep two in a bed.  In fact, you would a good deal
stranger entered the room, and without looking towards the bed, placed his
saw a glimmer of light come into the room from under the door.  Lord save me,
but I rolled about a good deal, and could not sleep for a long time.  At
mattress was stuffed with corn-cobs or broken crockery, there is no telling,
thinks I, that must be the harpooneer, the infernal head-peddler.  But I lay
but jumped out of my pantaloons and boots, and then blowing out the light
coming home at all that night, it being so very late, I made no more ado,
from the surgeon.  But at that moment he chanced to turn his face so towards
the light, that I plainly saw they could not be sticking-plasters at all,
as I was, and remembering what the landlord said about the harpooneer's not
those black squares on his cheeks.  they were stains of some sort or other.  At
first I knew not what to make of this; but soon an inkling of the truth
middle of the room thinking.  I then took off my coat, and thought a little
the bed-side, I got up and took off my monkey jacket, and then stood in the
mysterious harpooneer had been wearing it of a rainy day.  I went up in it to
.. <p 20 >
outside; a man can be honest in any sort of skin.  But then, what to make of
his unearthly complexion, that part of it, I mean, lying round about, and
guise?  I put it on, to try it, and it weighed me down like a hamper, being
nothing but a good coat of tropical tanning; but I never heard of a hot sun's
tanning a white man into a purplish yellow one.  However, I had never been
a door mat, and parade the streets of any Christian town in that sort of
or slit in the middle of this mat, as you see the same in South American
like lightning, this harpooneer never noticed me at all.  But, after some
like the stained porcupine quills round an Indian moccasin.  There was a hole
pulled out a sort of tomahawk, and a seal-skin wallet with the hair on.
light, and felt it, and smelt it, and tried every way possible to arrive at
bed.  But what is this on the chest?  I took it up, and held it close to the
seaman's bag, containing the harpooneer's wardrobe, no doubt in lieu of a
fresh surprise.  There was no hair on his head --none to speak of at least --
hammock lashed up, and thrown upon the floor in one corner; also a large
head now looked for all the world like a mildewed skull.  Had not the stranger
stood between me and the door, I would have bolted out of it quicker than ever
rude shelf, the four walls, and a papered fireboard representing a man
was of a dark purplish, yellow color, here and there stuck over with large,
centre table, could see no other furniture belonging to the place, but a
over the bed.  Though none of the most elegant, it yet stood the scrutiny
confounded about the stranger, i confess i was now as much afraid of him as if
chest that did double duty as a wash-stand and centre table; there, make
night.  In fact, I was so afraid of him that I was not game enough just then
to address him, and demand a satisfactory answer concerning what seemed
abreast.  There, said the landlord, placing the candle on a crazy old sea
considered the matter a moment, and then up stairs we went, and I was
he exclaimed I vum it's Sunday --you won't see that harpooneer to-night; he's
lead the way.  But I stood irresolute; when looking at a clock in the corner,
the same squares as his face; his back, too, was all over the same dark
squares; he seemed to have been in a Thirty Years' War, and just escaped from
.. <p 19 >
After
was now quite plain that he must be some abominable savage or other shipped
aboard of a whaleman in the South Seas, and so landed in this Christian
and somehow, Sam got pitched on the floor, and came near breaking his arm.
of his own brothers.  He might take a fancy to mine --heavens!  look at that
tomahawk!  But there was no time for shuddering, for now the savage went about
something that completely fascinated my attention, and convinced me that he
Johnny in the foot of it.  But I got a dreaming and sprawling about one night,
bed that.  Why, afore we give it up, Sal used to put our Sam and little
pockets, and produced at length a curious little deformed image with a hunch
on its back, and exactly the color of a three days' old Congo baby.
There's plenty room for two to kick about in that bed; it's an almighty big
a nice bed: Sal and me slept in that ere bed the night we were spliced.
was not at all limber, and that it glistened a good deal like polished ebony,
     But come, it's getting dreadful late, you had better be turning flukes --it's

the papered fire-board, sets up this little hunchbacked image, like a tenpin,
between the andirons.  the chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very
business as selling the heads of dead idolators?  Depend upon it, landlord,
or chapel for his Congo idol.  I now screwed my eyes hard towards the half
hidden image, feeling but ill at ease meantime --to see what was next to
Saturday night clean into the holy Sabbath, engaged in such a cannibal
pocket, and places them carefully before the idol; then laying a bit of ship
biscuit on top and applying the flame from the lamp, he kindled the shavings
like a string of inions.  This account cleared up the otherwise unaccountable
fire, and still hastier
goin' out of the door with four heads strung on a string, for all the airth
window, but it was the second floor back.  I am no coward, but what to make
he at last succeeded in drawing out the biscuit; then blowing off the heat
and that one he's trying to sell to-night, cause to-morrow's Sunday, and it
little devil did not seem to fancy such dry sort of fare at all; he never
moved his lips.  All these strange antics were accompanied by still stranger
Zealand heads (great curios, you know), and he's sold all on 'em but one,
sir, by trying to induce me to do so knowingly, would thereby render yourself
chance of spending a sufferable night unless in some other person's bed, I
the idol up very unceremoniously, and bagged it again in his grego pocket
no idea of sleeping with a madman; and you, sir, you I mean, landlord, you,
in all respects safe to spend the night with him.  And in the first place,
speak out and tell me who and what this harpooneer is, and whether I shall be
into bed with me, I thought it was high time, now or never, before the light
was put out, to break the spell into which I had so long been bound.  But the
.. <p 18 >
harpooneer.  And about this harpooneer, whom I have not yet seen, you
holding it to the light, with his mouth at the handle, he puffed out great
can only give me half a one; that the other half belongs to a certain
this wild cannibal, tomahawk between his teeth, sprang into bed with me.  I
sang out, I could not help it now; and giving a sudden grunt of astonishment
-- landlord, stop whittling.  You and I must understand one another, and
     Landlord, said I, going up to him as cool as Mt.  Hecla in a snow storm,
be, to keep quiet, and let me get up and light the lamp again.  But his
guttural responses satisfied me at once that he but ill comprehended my
meaning.  Who-e debel you? --he at last said -- you no speak-e, dam-me, I
kill-e.  And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the

I kill-e!  again growled the cannibal, while his horrid flourishings of the
now flying into a passion again at this unaccountable farrago of the
to settle down in.  But I soon found that there came such a draught of cold
harpooneer hears you a slanderin' his head.  I'll break it for him, said I,
     With heads to be sure; ain't there too many heads in the world?  I tell

     Don't be afraid now, said he, grinning again.  Queequeg here wouldn't harm
a hair of your head.  Stop your grinning, shouted I, and why didn't you
about that harpooneer. -- I shan't sleep with him.  I'll try the bench here.
bench in the room was about four inches higher than the planed one --so there
tomahawk scattered the hot tobacco ashes about me till I thought
around this town?  That's precisely it, said the landlord, and I told him
     Do you pretend to say, landlord, that this harpooneer is actually engaged
could be mended with a chair.  But it was a foot too narrow, and the other
to me with his tomahawk, and throwing the clothes to one side.  He really did
this in not only a civil but a really kind and charitable way.  I stood

bamboozingly story is this you are telling me?  getting into a towering rage.
thought i to myself --the man's a human being just as I am: he has just as
much reason to fear me, as I have to be afraid of him.  Better sleep with a
may be, he can't sell his head.  Can't sell his head? --What sort of a
stash his tomahawk there, or pipe, or whatever you call it; tell him to
stop smoking, in short, and I will turn in with him.  But I don't fancy having
--yes, he's the bird what catches the worm. --But to-night he went out a
answered, generally he's an early bird -- airley to bed and airley to rise
me to get into bed --rolling over to one side as much as to say --I wont touch a
leg of ye.  Good night, landlord, said I, you may go.  I turned in, and
never slept better in my life.
a chap is he --does he always keep such late hours?  It was now hard upon
But though the other boarders kept coming in by ones, twos, and threes, and
.. <p 17 >
I found Queequeg's arm thrown over me in the most loving and affectionate
against this unknown harpooneer.  Thinks I, I'll wait awhile; he must be
got a carpenter's plane there in the bar --wait, I say, and I'll make ye snug
manner.  You had almost thought I had been his wife.  The counterpane was of
began to think that after all I might be cherishing unwarrantable prejudices
about in the most unnatural manner.  At last extinguishing the fire, he took
his keeping his arm at sea unmethodically in sun and shade, his shirt
patchwork, full of odd little parti-colored squares and triangles; and this
looked for all the world like a strip of that same patchwork quilt.  Indeed,
dismissed it.  For who could tell but what the next morning, so soon as I
him --bolt his door inside, and jump into his bed, not to be wakened by the
sense of weight and pressure that I could tell that Queequeg was hugging me.
devil fetch that harpooneer, thought I, but stop, couldn't I steal a march on
air over me from under the sill of the window, that this plan would never do
sleeves irregularly rolled up at various times --this same arm of his, I say,
this.  I had been cutting up some caper or other --I think it was trying to
just as you please; i'm sorry i cant spare ye a tablecloth for a mattress,
clear space against the wall, leaving a little interval between, for my back
sending me to bed supperless, --my mother dragged me by the legs out of the
tell me that that infernal harpooneer was a cannibal?  I thought ye know'd
bedwards.  Suppose now, he should tumble in upon me at midnight --how could I
another grin, and throwing them into the great stove in the middle of the
little room in the third floor, undressed myself as slowly as possible so as
to kill time, and with a bitter sigh got between the sheets.  I lay there
could make eider down of a pine plank.  So gathering up the shavings with
first dusting the bench, vigorously set to planing away at my bed, the while
enough.  So saying he procured the plane; and with his old silk handkerchief
ashore.  To be sure they all sleep together in one apartment, but you have
streets, and the sound of gay voices all over the house.  I felt worse and
the sun shining in at the window, and a great rattling of coaches in the
was a reality or a dream, I never could entirely settle.  The circumstance was
.. <p 16 >
and it's a plaguy rough board here --feeling of the knots and notches.  But
misbehavior; anything indeed but condemning me to lie abed such an
unendurable length of time.  But she was the best and most conscientious of
stepmothers, and back I had to go to my room.  For several hours I lay there
a harpooneer, then your objections indefinitely multiply.  Nor was there any
it; --didn't I tell ye, he was peddlin' heads around town? --but turn flukes
troubled nightmare of a doze; and slowly waking from it --half steeped in
away at his pipe and sitting up in bed.  You gettee in, he added, motioning
harpooneer, his linen or woollen, as the case might be, would not be of the
to be seen, and nothing was to be heard; but a supernatural hand seemed
placed in mine.  My arm hung over the counterpane, and the nameless,
unimaginable, silent form or phantom, to which the hand belonged, seemed
withdrawals of his fingers (whereby he seemed to be scorching them badly),
earthly reason why I as a sailor should sleep two in a bed, more than anybody
spell would be broken.  I knew not how this consciousness at last glided away
working away at the knotted cords of the large bag I before spoke of as being
he couldn't sell it here, the market's overstocked.  With what?  shouted I.
an unknown stranger, in a strange inn, in a strange town, and that stranger
it.  Now, take away the awful fear, and my sensations at feeling the
supernatural hand in mine were very similar, in their strangeness, to those
to explain the mystery.  Nay, to this very hour, I often puzzle myself with
which I experienced on waking up and seeing Queequeg's pagan arm thrown round
worse --at last I got up, dressed, and softly going down in my stockinged
yet ever thinking that if I could but stir it one single inch, the horrid
     his sake this great tempest was upon them; they mercifully turn from him,
and seek by other means to save the ship.  But all in vain; the indignant
and smoke, we went to our room together.  He made me a present of his
as an anchor and dropped into the sea; when instantly an oily calmness floats
embalmed head; took out his enormous tobacco wallet, and groping under the
savage those old rules would not apply.  After supper, and another social chat
table, and mechanically dividing them into two equal portions, pushed one of
silenced me by pouring them into my trowsers' pockets.  I let them stay.  He
them towards me, and said it was mine.  I was going to remonstrate; but he
seemed far too premature, a thing to be much distrusted; but in this simple
need should be.  In a countryman, this sudden flame of friendship would have
country's phrase, that we were bosom friends; he would gladly die for me, if
He seemed to take to me quite as naturally and unbiddenly as I to him; and
then went about his evening prayers, took out his idol, and removed the
pictures that were in it.  Thus I soon engaged his interest; and from that we
this wild idolator in worshipping his piece of wood?  But what is worship?
thought I. Do you suppose now, Ishmael, that the magnanimous God of heaven
bedfellows.  I told him yes; whereat I thought he looked pleased, perhaps a
night's hospitalities, he made out to ask me whether we were again to be
tobacco, drew out some thirty dollars in silver; then spreading them on the
.. <p 51 >
but hollow courtesy.  I drew my bench near him, and made some friendly signs
went to jabbering the best we could about the various outer sights to be seen
will of God -- that is worship.  And what is the will of God? --to do to my
me.  I'll try a pagan friend, thought I, since Christian kindness has proved
to feel myself mysteriously drawn towards him.  And those same things that
thrice; kissed his nose; and that done, we undressed and went to bed, at
and bland deceits.  Wild he was; a very sight of sights to see; yet I began
without some little chat.  How it is I know not; but there is no place like a
commodores of this earth, ever stands forth his own inexorable self.  Delight
more my splintered heart and maddened hand were turned against the wolfish
often lie and chat over old times till nearly morning.  Thus, then, in our
I began to be sensible of strange feelings.  I felt a melting in me.  No
evening shades and phantoms gathering round the casements, and peering in
intensity has warmed the air, it then only glows to be looked at; the
man gives himself out for a philosopher, I conclude that, like the dyspeptic
conscious of so living or so striving.  So soon as I hear that such or such a
napping at short intervals, and Queequeg now and then affectionately throwing
his brown tattooed legs over mine, and then drawing them back; so entirely
sociable and free and easy were we; when, at last, by reason of our
companionship; always equal to himself.  Surely this was a touch of fine
Horn, that is --which was the only way he could get there --thrown among people
future.  Yes, we became very wakeful; so much so that our recumbent
it.  Here was a man some twenty thousand miles from home, by the way of Cape
position began to grow wearisome, and by little and little we found ourselves
sitting up; the clothes well tucked around us, leaning against the
seamen in the inn.  He made no advances whatever; appeared to have no desire
self-collectedness of simplicity seems a Socratic wisdom.  I had noticed also
exactly how to take them.  At first they are overawing; their calm
.. <p 50 >
say, because truly to enjoy bodily warmth, some small part of you must be
face of Falsehood!  That was it!  This, shipmates, this is that other lesson;
indifference of his
over comfortable, and have been so a long time, then you cannot be said to
I had found thrown over me upon waking in the morning, I thought this
the casement, he never heeded my presence, never troubled himself with so
in the general consciousness you feel most delightfully and unmistakably warm.
scanning him, half-pretending meanwhile to be looking out at the storm from
regularly graded retreating slope from above the brows, which were likewise
which is one of the luxurious discomforts of the rich.  For the height of
this sort of deliciousness is to have nothing but the blanket between you and
worship.  consequently, i must then unite with him in his; ergo, I must turn
warm spark in the heart of an arctic crystal.  We had been sitting in this
Washington's head, as seen in the popular busts of him.  It had the same long
an excellent one.  It may seem ridiculous, but it reminded me of General
asleep or awake, I have a way of always keeping my eyes shut, in order the
hell" --when the whale grounded upon the ocean's utmost bones, even then, God
feel his own identity aright except his eyes be closed; as if darkness were
indeed the proper element of our essences, though light be more congenial to
more to concentrate the snugness of being in bed.  Because no man can ever
a man who had never cringed and never had had a creditor.  Whether it was,
Pagan, which even his uncouthness could not altogether maim.  He looked like
our clayey part.  Upon opening my eyes then, and coming out of my own pleasant
revulsion.  Nor did I at all object to the hint from Queequeg that perhaps it
unilluminated twelve-o'clock-at-night, I experienced a disagreeable
devils.  And besides all this, there was a certain lofty bearing about the
black and bold, there seemed tokens of a spirit that would dare a thousand
You cannot hide the soul.  Through all his unearthly tattooings, I thought I
the bed the night before, yet see how elastic our stiff prejudices grow when
love once comes to bend them.  For now I liked nothing better than to have
multitude of pages was excited.  With much interest I sat watching him.  Savage
serene household joy then.  I no more felt unduly concerned for the landlord's
policy of insurance.  I was only alive to the condensed confidential
a large number of fifties being found together, that his astonishment at the
shaggy jackets drawn about our shoulders, we now passed the Tomahawk from one
to the other, till slowly there grew over us a blue hanging tester of smoke,
giving utterance to a long-drawn gurgling whistle of astonishment.  He would
undulating tester rolled the savage away to far distant scenes, I know not,
page --as I fancied --stopping a moment, looking vacantly around him, and
.. <p 49 >
face that little negro idol of his; peering hard into its face, and with a
were best to strike a light, seeing that we were so wide awake; and besides
present the whole story such as it may prove in the mere skeleton I give.
Chapel, I found Queequeg there quite alone; he having left the Chapel before
     Returning to the Spouter-Inn from the

people had departed, and he was left alone in the place.
island far away to the West and South.  It is not down in any map; true
places never are.  When a new-hatched savage running wild about his native
when I had become more familiar with his broken phraseology, now enable me to
covered his face with his hands, and so remained kneeling, till all the
--chiefly known to me by Thy rod --mortal or immortal, here I die.  I have
--top-gallant delight is to him, who acknowledges no law or lord, but the
maternal side he boasted aunts who were the wives of unconquerable warriors.
be mine the lesson that Jonah teaches to all sinners; and therefore to ye,
pluck it out from under the robes of Senators and Judges.  Delight,
sadly vitiated, I fear, by the cannibal propensity he nourished in his
untutored youth.  A Sag Harbor ship visited his father's bay, and Queequeg
sought a passage to Christian lands.  But the ship, having her full complement
bed for confidential disclosures between friends.  Man and wife, they say,
a sure delight; and higher the top of that delight, than the bottom of the
to a distant strait, which he knew the ship must pass through when she quitted
He drooped and fell away from himself for a moment; then lifting his face to
     Woe to him who, in this world, courts not dishonor!  Woe to him who would not
land, covered with mangrove thickets that grew out into the water.  Hiding
his canoe, still afloat, among these thickets, with its prow seaward, he sat

like a flash he darted out; gained her side; with one backward dash of his
foot capsized and sank his canoe; climbed up the chains; and throwing
rather than to appal!  Woe to him whose good name is more to him than goodness!
to let it go, though hacked in pieces.  In vain the captain threatened to throw
elements at work; and the thunders that rolled away from off his swarthy
Almighty's bidding.  And what was that, shipmates?  To preach the Truth to the
and earth; and"vomited out Jonah upon the dry land;" when the word of the
relented, and told him he might make himself at home.  But this fine young
savage --this sea Prince of Wales, never saw the captain's cabin.  They put him
breeching up towards the warm and pleasant sun, and all the delights of air
describing Jonah's sea-storm, seemed tossed by a storm himself.  His deep
his untutored countrymen.  For at bottom --so he told me --he was actuated by a
is, Jonah does not weep and wail for direct deliverance.  He feels that his
people still happier than they were; and more than that, still better than
profound desire to learn among the Christians, the arts whereby to make his
they were.  But, alas!  the practices of whalemen soon convinced him that even
him.  Yet even then beyond the reach of any plummet --"out of the belly of
God came upon him in the whale, and swallowed him down to living gulfs of
the sailors did there; and then going on to Nantucket, and seeing how they
spent their wages in that place also, poor Queequeg gave it up for lost.
Joppa.  But God is everywhere; Tarshish he never reached.  As we have seen,
his mission, and sought to escape his duty and his God by taking ship at
and thus an old idolator at heart, he yet lived among these Christians, wore
their clothes, and tried to talk their gibberish.  Hence the queer ways about
him, though now some time from home.  By hints, I asked him whether he did
a wicked nineveh, jonah, appalled at the hostility he should raise, fled from
his father dead and gone, he being very old and feeble at the last accounts.
.. <p 47 >
rather Christians, had unfitted him for ascending the pure and undefiled
throne of thirty pagan Kings before him.  But by and by, he said, he would
return, --as soon as he felt himself baptized again.  For the nonce, however,
and more awful lesson which Jonah teaches to me as a pilot of
and still more to me, for I am a greater sinner than ye.  And now how gladly
now.  I asked him what might be his immediate purpose, touching his future
movements.  He answered, to go to sea again, in his old vocation.  Upon this,
There was excellent blood in his veins --royal stuff; though
to sail out of Nantucket, as being the most promising port for an adventurous
whaleman to embark from.  He at once resolved to accompany me to that island,
and bowing his head lowly, with an aspect of the deepest yet manliest
communing with God and himself.  But again he leaned over towards the people,
his, boldly dip into the Potluck of both worlds.  To all this I joyously
at last, standing motionless, with closed eyes, for the moment, seemed
dreadful punishment is just.  He leaves all his deliverance to God, contenting
to one, who, like me, was wholly ignorant of the mysteries of whaling, though
well acquainted with the sea, as known to merchant seamen.  His story being
chest heaved as with a ground-swell; his tossed arms seemed the warring
other, this way and that, and very soon were sleeping.
seeming ignominy, if thereby he might happily gain the power of enlightening
Jonah.  While he was speaking these words, the howling of the shrieking,
Jonah before you to be copied for his sin but I do place him before you as a
deliverance of him from the sea and the whale.  Shipmates, I do not place
     himself with this, that spite of all his pains and pangs, he will still
the embalmed head to a barber, for a block, I settled my own and comrade's
bill; using, however, my comrade's money.  The grinning landlord, as well as

sprung up between me and Queequeg -- especially as Peter Coffin's cock and bull
stories about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person
whom I now companied with.  We borrowed a wheelbarrow, and embarking our
things, including my own poor carpet-bag, and Queequeg's canvas sack and
cold, for there is no quality in this world that is not what it is merely by
woodlands in a grass clout, followed by the nibbling goats, as if he were a
awaiting him; and the whale shoots-to all his ivory teeth, like the Lord out
.. <p 46 >
and then stopping to adjust the sheath on his harpoon barbs.  I asked him why
he carried such a troublesome thing with him ashore, and whether all whaling
heeded them not, going along wheeling the barrow by turns, and Queequeg now
ships did not find their own harpoons.  To this, in substance, he replied,
that though what I hinted was true enough, yet he had a particular affection
a masterless commotion that he scarce heeds the moment when he drops seething
many inland reapers and mowers, who go into the farmers' meadows armed with
their own scythes --though in no wise obliged to furnished them -- even so,
your snugness and the cold of the outer air.  Then there you lie like the one
would do to me?  Why, unite with me in my particular Presbyterian form of
.. <p 75 >
drab-colored eye intently looking at you, made you feel completely nervous,
like mad, at something or other, never mind what.  Indolence and
proceeded far, when I began to bethink me that the captain with whom I was to
Yojo had provided to carry Queequeg and me round the Cape.  But I had not
sail yet remained unseen by me; though, indeed, in many cases, a whale-ship
his book, Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth--
that sort, he does not trouble himself much about his ship in port, but
leaves her to the owners till all is ready for sea.  However, it is always as
voyages are so prolonged, and the shore intervals at home so exceedingly
done a good morning's work, and that the Pequod was the identical ship that
was to be found.  And what dost thou want of Captain Ahab?  It's all right
proceedings; Bildad never heeded us, but went on mumbling to himself out of
And, after signing the papers, off I went; nothing doubting but that I had
.. <p 79 >
well to have a look at him before irrevocably committing yourself into his
Peleg was vainly trying to mend a pen with his jack-knife, old Bildad, to my
Captain Peleg.  Well, bring him along then.
like him well enough; no fear, no fear.  he's a grand, ungodly, god-like
man, Captain Ahab; doesn't speak much; but, when he does speak, then you may
well listen.  Mark ye, be forewarned; Ahab's above the common; Ahab's been
he ever whaled it any?  turning to me.  Killed more whales than I can count,
burying himself.  Oh!  never thee mind about that, Bildad, said Peleg.  Has
lance!  aye, the keenest and the surest that out of all our isle!  Oh!  he
me who wants to ship too --shall I bring him down to-morrow?  To be sure,
for the three hundredth lay.  Captain Peleg, said I, I have a friend with
that wicked king was slain, the dogs, did they not lick his blood?
man, Ishmael's thy name, didn't ye say?  Well then, down ye go here, Ishmael,
     here needs the grindstone.  That's he; thank ye, Bildad.  Now then, my young

eye that almost startled me.  Look ye, lad; never say that on board the
Pequod.  Never say it anywhere.  Captain Ahab did not name himself. 'Twas a
foolish, ignorant whim of his crazy, widowed mother, who died when he was
only a twelvemonth old.  And yet the old squaw Tistig, at Gayhead, said that
the name would somehow prove prophetic.  And, perhaps, other fools like her
     though he twitched a little as if still nervously agitated.  Whew!  he

--something like me --only there's a good deal more of him.  Aye, aye, I know
distrustful about receiving a generous share of the profits was this: Ashore,
good man --not a pious, good man, like Bildad, but a swearing good man
little out of his mind for a spell; but it was the sharp shooting pains in
his bleeding stump that brought that about, as any one might see.  I know,
that he was never very jolly; and I know that on the passage home, he was a
he had, there seemed no more left in him, and he, too, sat down like a lamb,
impenitent Peleg and his ways.  As for Peleg, after letting off his rage as
I stepped aside from the door to give egress to Bildad, who, I made no doubt,
idea of sailing in a vessel so questionably owned and temporarily commanded,
have been surprised had I been offered the 200th, considering I was of a
too, that ever since he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale, he's
sweet, resigned girl.  Think of that; by that sweet girl that old man has a
and responsible owners of the ship, and feeling half a mind to give up all
Bildad, but with a marvellous oblique, sliding celerity, Bildad for that
away, I was full of thoughtfulness; what had been incidentally revealed to
me of Captain Ahab, filled me with a certain wild vagueness of painfulness
concerning him.  And somehow, at the time, I felt a sympathy and a sorrow for
gun --a straight wake with ye!  As he thundered out this he made a rush at
wicked name.  Besides, my boy, he has a wife --not three voyages wedded --a
hair and horns on.  Out of the cabin, ye canting, drab-colored son of a wooden
     Fiery pit!  fiery pit!  ye insult me, man; past all natural bearing, ye
what seemed like mystery in him, so imperfectly as he was known to me then.
fortunes, and am quite content if the world is ready to board and lodge me,

.. < chapter xvii 2  THE RAMADAN >
and board, for which I would not have to pay one stiver.  It might be thought
greatly fear lest thy conscience be but a leaky one; and will in the end
i can't tell; but as thou art still an impenitent man, captain Peleg, I
a conscience to lug about that would be heavy enough to founder the largest
ship that ever sailed round Cape Horn.  Captain Peleg, said Bildad
religious obligations, never mind how comical, and could not find it in my
Bildad, if I had followed thy advice in these matters, I would afore now had
those other creatures in certain parts of our earth, who with a degree of
footmanism quite unprecedented in other planets, bow down before the torso
orphans, many of them --and that if we too abundantly reward the labors of this
possessions yet owned and rented in his name.  I say, we good Presbyterian
consider the duty thou owest to the other owners of this ship-- widows and
towards night-fall; for I cherish the greatest respect towards everybody's
nett proceeds of the voyage, whatever that might eventually amount to.  And
hundredth lay, I say.  Bildad laid down his book, and turning solemnly
that?  Queequeg thought he knew what he was about, I suppose; he seemed to be
the three hundredth, said Peleg, do ye hear that, Bildad!  The three
cried Peleg, Thou dost not want to swindle this young man!  he must have
doubloons; and so I thought at the time.  Why, blast your eyes, Bildad,
need mending.  Towards evening, when I felt assured that all his performances
is a pretty large number, yet, when you come to make a teenth of it, you
no answer.  I tried to open it, but it was fastened inside.  Queequeg, said
corrupt.  It was an exceedingly long lay that, indeed; and though from the
speak?  It's I--Ishmael.  But all remained still as before.  I began to grow
hundred and seventy-seventh!  Well, old Bildad, you are determined that I,
     Thou knowest best, was the sepulchral reply, the seven hundred and

sinister one.  I could only see part of the foot-board of the bed and a line of
give this young man?
     Well, Captain Bildad, interrupted Peleg, what d'ye say, what lay shall we
the wall, but nothing more.  I was surprised to behold resting against the
vastly superior to other mortals, pagans and what not, because of their

brief, that if the captain have a family, or any absorbing concernment of
seldom or never goes abroad without it, therefore he must be inside here,
enough; thou art shipped.  Yes, but I should like to see him.  But I
Any how, young man, he won't always see me, so I don't suppose he will thee.
hands, especially as I now found him on board the Pequod, quite at home there
but what the stingy old Bildad might have a mighty deal to say about shipping
person i met --the chambermaid.  la!  la!  she cried, i thought something
must be the matter.  I went to make the bed after breakfast, and the door
wall the wooden shaft of Queequeg's harpoon, which the landlady the evening
since.  But I thought, may be, you had both gone off and locked your baggage
     I had heard something of both Captain Peleg and his unaccountable old crony

Mrs. Hussey soon appeared, with a mustard-pot in one hand and a vinegar-cruet
castors, and scolding her little black boy meantime.  Wood-house!  cried I,
his drab vesture was buttoned up to his chin; and spectacles on nose, he
chest, and drawing forth the ship's articles, placed pen and ink before him,
broad-shouldered make.  But one thing, nevertheless, that made me a little
door --the axe! --the axe!  he's had a stroke; depend upon it! --and so saying I
his utilitarian character.  On his long, gaunt body, he carried no spare
interposed the mustard-pot and vinegar-cruet, and the entire castor of her
good-bye to thee --and wrong not Captain Ahab, because he happens to have a
I thought that the 275th lay would be about the fair thing, but would not
said the landlady, quickly putting down the vinegar-cruet, so as to have one
hand free; look here; are you talking about prying open any of my doors?
mumbling tone quite audible.  I thought him the queerest old Quaker I ever saw,
matter with you, shipmate?  In as calm, but rapid a manner as possible, I
hollow tone, and turning round to me.  I dost, said I unconsciously, he was
vinegar-cruet
for the clothing I would wear out on it, not to speak of my three years' beef
better than nothing; and if we had a lucky voyage, might pretty nearly pay
haven't seen it since I put it there.  Running to a little closet under the
landing of the stairs, she glanced in, and returning, told me that Queequeg's
half-crazy conceits on these subjects.  There was Queequeg, now, certainly
stiggs done over again --there goes another counterpane --god pity his poor
mother! --it will be the ruin of my house.  Has the poor lad a sister?  Where's
that girl? --there, Betty, go to Snarles the Painter, and tell him to paint
should be offered at least the 275th lay --that is, the 275th part of the clear
I was also aware that being a green hand at whaling, my own lay would not be
.. <p 76 >
up after me, she caught me as I was again trying to force open the door.  I
was locked; and not a mouse to be heard; and it's been just so silent ever
     lays, and that these lays were proportioned to the degree of importance

she turned it in the lock; but, alas!  Queequeg's supplemental bolt remained
unwithdrawn within.  Have to burst it open, said I, and was running down
the entry a little, for a good start, when the landlady caught at me, again
vowing I should not break down her premises; but I tore from her, and with a
hands, including the captain, received certain shares of the profits called
I was already aware that in the whaling business they paid no wages; but all
altogether cool and self-collected; right in the middle of the room;
plaster to the ceiling; and there, good heavens!  there sat Queequeg,
seemed absorbed in reading from a ponderous volume.  Bildad, cried Captain
     and seated himself at a little table.  I began to think it was high time to

active life.  Queequeg, said I, going up to him, Queequeg, what's the
matter with you?  He hain't been a sittin' so all day, has he?  said the
landlady.  But all we said, not a word could we drag out of him; I almost
won't allow it; I won't have my premises spoiled.  Go for the locksmith,
But I said nothing, only looking round me sharply.  Peleg now threw open a
However, my thoughts were at length carried in other directions, so that for
constrained; especially, as in all probability he had been sitting so for
upwards of eight or ten hours, going too without his regular meals.  Mrs.
The space between the decks was small; and there, bolt-upright, sat old
Bildad, said Peleg, he wants to ship.  Dost thee?  said Bildad, in a
Bildad, without noticing his present irreverence, quietly looked up, and
Bildad?  As if long habituated to such profane talk from his old shipmate,
he sat; and all he could do --for all my polite arts and blandishments --he
like the worn nap of his broad-brimmed hat.  Such, then, was the person that I
notice my presence in any the slightest way.  I wonder, thought I, if this can
possibly be a part of his Ramadan; do they fast on their hams that way in his
Peleg, at it again, Bildad, eh?  Ye have been studying those Scriptures,
last for ever, thank God, and his Ramadan only comes once a year; and I
was unmethodically rushing up stairs again empty-handed, when Mrs. Hussey
flesh, no superfluous beard, his chin having a soft, economical nap to it,
in the other, having just broken away from the occupation of attending to the
Bildad, who always sat so, and never leaned, and this to save his coat
only); after listening to these plum-puddingers till nearly eleven o'clock,
well, then, let him rest; he'll get up sooner or later, no doubt.  It can't
will be completely fitted out, and receive all her crew on board, ere the
would not move a peg, nor say a single word, nor even look at me, nor
squatting on his hams, and holding Yojo on top of his head.  He looked neither
there all day and half the night on his hams in a cold room, holding a piece
yet he don't look so.  In fact, he ain't sick; but no, he isn't well either.
yet I also felt a strange awe of him; but that sort of awe, which I cannot at
be seen actively engaged in looking over the bows for the approaching anchor,
board the Pequod, particularly in getting under weigh; and Charity, his
burn, as before so many shrines, to our glory!  But look at this matter in
concerned in, for he never piloted any other craft --Bildad, I say, might now
for almost all the tapers, lamps, and candles that burn round the globe,
fleets?  Why did Louis XVI.  of France, at his own personal expense, fit out
have been.  Why did the Dutch in DeWitt's time have admirals of their whaling
of families from our own island of Nantucket?  Why did Britain between the
other lights; weigh it in all sorts of scales; see what we whalemen are, and
unwittingly pay us the profoundest homage; yea, an all-abounding adoration!
whaling ships from Dunkirk, and politely invite to that town some score or two
comprehensible terrors of man compared with the interlinked terrors and
a battery, would quickly recoil at the apparition of the sperm whale's vast
idea of peril so much enhances the popular conceit of the soldier's
.. <p 107 >
in question to be true; what disordered slippery decks of a whale-ship are
seven hundred vessels; manned by eighteen thousand men; yearly consuming 00824,000,000 of dollars; the ships worth, at the time of sailing, 20,000,000
among the cleanliest things of this tidy earth.  But even granting the charge
are, that is true.  But butchers, also, and butchers of the bloodiest badge
whaling?  But this is not the half; look again.  I freely assert, that the
cosmopolite philosopher cannot, for his life, point out one single peaceful
engaged therein, we are surrounded by all manner of defilements.  Butchers we
upon the whole broad world, taken in one aggregate, than the high and mighty
Whale Fishery) to his visiting card, such a procedure would be deemed
his merits, were he presented to the company as a harpooneer, say; and if in
issues, that whaling may well be regarded as that Egyptian mother, who bore
offspring themselves pregnant from her womb.  It would be a hopeless, endless
task to catalogue all these things.  Let a handful suffice.  For many
metropolitan society, it would but slightly advance the general opinion of
wonders of God!  But, though the world scouts at us whale hunters, yet does it
deemed almost superfluous to establish the fact, that among people at large,
injustice hereby done to us hunters of whales.  In the first place, it may be
     to be regarded among landsmen as a rather unpoetical and disreputable

them the way, and first interpreted between them and the savages.  They may
celebrate as they will the heroes of Exploring Expeditions, your Cookes,
     As Queequeg and I are now fairly embarked
out of Nantucket, that were as great, and greater than your Cooke and your
Krusenstern.  For in their succorless emptyhandedness, they, in the

battled with virgin wonders and terrors that Cooke with all his marines and
muskets would not willingly have dared.  All that is made such a flourish of
in the old South Sea Voyages, those things were but the lifetime commonplaces
of our heroic Nantucketers.  Often, adventures which Vancouver dedicates three
.. < chapter xxiv 2  THE ADVOCATE >
.. <p 106 >
Cape Horn, no commerce but colonial, scarcely any intercourse but colonial,
was carried on between Europe and the long line of the opulent Spanish
provinces on the Pacific coast.  It was the whaleman who first broke through
crawl to land!  Terrors of the terrible!  is all this agony so vain?  Take
space permitted, it might be distinctly shown how from those whalemen at last
eventuated the liberation of Peru, Chili, and Bolivia from the yoke of Old
lee, even if that were safety!  For worm-like, then, oh!  who would craven
great America on the other side of the sphere, Australia, was given to the
alone resides the highest truth, shoreless, indefinite as God --so, better is
barbarous; but the whale-ship touched there.  The whale-ship is the true
earnest thinking is but the intrepid effort of the soul to keep the open
lantern came too near.  And he, too, did not a little run from cabin to deck
Glimpses do ye seem to see of that mortally intolerable truth; that all deep,
ourselves almost broad upon the wintry ocean, whose freezing spray cased us
his face, as much as to say, Nevertheless, friend Peleg, I can stand it;
fights 'gainst the very winds that fain would blow her homeward; seeks all
same truth, and do commercial homage to the whale-ship, that cleared the way
from starvation by the benevolent biscuit of the whale-ship luckily dropping
that ship's direst jeopardy; she must fly all hospitality; one touch of
the hand, and holding up a lantern, for a moment stood gazing heroically in
the lashed sea's landlessness again; for refuge's sake forlornly rushing into
this, you still declare that whaling has no aesthetically noble associations
all that's kind to our mortalities.  But in that gale, the port, the land, is
it fared with him as with the storm-tossed ship, that miserably drives along
looked right and left; looked everywhere and nowhere; and at last,
six-inch chapter is the stoneless grave of Bulkington.  Let me only say that
dangerous voyage, could so unrestingly push off again for still another
     When on that shivering winter's night, the Pequod thrust her vindictive bows
narrative of a whaling-voyage?  Who, but no less a prince than Alfred the
Great, who, with his own royal pen, took down the words from Other, the

in Parliament?  Who, but Edmund Burke!  True enough, but then whalemen
themselves are poor devils; they have no good blood in their veins.  No good
     Some chapters back, one Bulkington was

Mary Folger, one of the old settlers of Nantucket, and the ancestress to a
The grandmother of Benjamin Franklin was Mary Morrel" afterwards, by marriage,
freely, while imperturbable Bildad kept leading off with his psalmody.  Thinks
.. < chapter xxiii 28  THE LEE SHORE >
.. <p 104 >
boat.  Ship and boat diverged; the cold, damp night breeze blew between; a
Good-bye, good-bye!  Don't keep that cheese too long down in the hold, Mr.
law, the whale is declared a royal fish.
I thought.  If ye touch at the islands, Mr. Flask, beware of fornication.
gifts.  Have an eye to the molasses tierce, Mr. Stubb; it was a little leaky,
store; and meads and glades so eternally vernal, that the grass shot up by
one of the mighty triumphs given to a Roman general upon his entering the
that had accompanied us began ranging alongside.  It was curious and not
either.  Mr Starbuck, mind that cooper don't waste the spare staves.  Oh!  the
Don't stave the boats needlessly, ye harpooneers; good white cedar plank is
whaling.  No dignity in whaling?  The dignity of our calling the very
heavens attest.  Cetus is a constellation in the South!  No more!  Drive down
will be due; for already she is on the threshold.  But if, in the face of all
know a man that, in his lifetime, has taken three hundred and fifty whales.  I
bless ye, and have ye in His holy keeping, men, murmured old Bildad, almost
Mr. Flask --good-bye, and good luck to ye all --and this day three years I'll
possibility, there be any as yet undiscovered prime thing in me; if I shall
ever deserve any real repute in that small but high hushed world which I might
.. <p 104 >
upon the whole, a man might rather have done than to have left undone; if, at
my death, my executors, or more properly my creditors, find any precious MSS.

whaling; for a whale-ship was my Yale College and my Harvard.
beyond the swelling flood, Stand dressed in living green.  So to the Jews old
--say your last.  Luck to ye, Starbuck --luck to ye, Mr. Stubb --luck to ye,
See subsequent chapters for something more on this head.
Stand by to come close alongside, now!  Careful, careful! --come, Bildad, boy
Bildad --come, old shipmate, we must go.  Back the main-yard there!  Boat ahoy!
--now a word below, and now a word with Starbuck, the chief mate.  But, at
elephant, vast curving icicles depended from the bows.  Lank Bildad, as pilot,
for the missionary and the merchant, and in many cases carried the primitive
mother of that now mighty colony.  Moreover, in the infancy of the first
is ever to become hospitable, it is the whale-ship alone to whom the credit
author, and whaling no famous chronicler, you will say.  The whale no
surmise, which might tell eloquently upon his cause --such an advocate, would
he not be blameworthy?  It is well known that at the coronation of kings and
Bildad lingered long; paced the deck with anxious strides" ran down into the
their functions is gone through.  There is a saltcellar of state, so called,
and there may be a caster of state.  How they use the salt, precisely --who
coronation, even as a head of salad.  Can it be, though, that they anoint it
good-bye to a thing so every way brimful of every interest to him, --poor old
might be ruminated here, concerning the essential dignity of this regal
on my handspike, and told Queequeg to do the same, thinking of the perils we
process, because in common life we esteem but meanly and contemptibly a
world's capital, the bones of a whale, brought all the way from the Syrian
Captain Bildad.  For loath to depart, yet; very loath to leave, for good, a
a quoggy spot in him somewhere.  As a general rule, he can't amount to much in
long line of Folgers and harpooneers --all kith and kin to noble Benjamin
imposing way.  The whale never figured in any grand imposing way?  In
.. <p 103 >
of oil is used at coronations?  Certainly it cannot be olive oil, nor macassar
oil, nor castor oil, nor bear's oil, nor train oil, nor cod-liver oil.  What
spring, thou chap with the red whiskers; spring there, Scotchcap; spring,
state, the sweetest of all oils?  Think of that, ye loyal Britons!  we
then can it possibly be, but sperm oil in its unmanufactured, unpolluted
Canaan stood, While Jordan rolled between.  Never did those sweet words sound
at the apparition of Captain Peleg in the act of withdrawing his leg from my
whalemen supply your kings and queens with coronation stuff!
found some salvation, spite of his seven hundred and seventy-seventh lay;
Christmas; and as the short northern day merged into night, we found
I, Captain Peleg must have been drinking something to-day.  At last the anchor
hot latitudes, his flesh being hard as twice-baked biscuit.  Transported to
the Indies, his live blood would not spoil like bottled
with a view of making its interior run well, as they anoint machinery?  Much
ship bound on so long and perilous a voyage --beyond both stormy Capes; a ship
immediate vicinity.  That was my first kick.  Is that the way they heave in
.. <p 109n. >
superfluousness.  But this, his thinness, so to speak, seemed no more the
token of wasting anxieties and cares, than it seemed the indication of any
would fain advance naught but substantiated facts.  But after embattling his
both ran, in starting on the voyage with such a devil for a pilot.  I was
strength, like a revivified Egyptian, this Starbuck seemed prepared to endure
years
.. <p 102 >
do well in all climates.  Looking into his eyes, you seemed to see there the
yet lingering images of those thousand-fold perils he had calmly confronted
your hat in presence of the Czar, and take it off to Queequeg!  No more!  I
years past the whale-ship has been the pioneer in ferreting out the remotest
     But this insult is whittled down to a point only."  But now comes the
argument, I take the good old fashioned ground that the whale is a fish, and
call upon holy Jonah to back me.  This fundamental thing settled, the next
me by the shoulders, and slews me round.  "What are you 'bout?" says he.  Slid!
     Charley profanely hinted they were humbug.  Be it known that, waiving all

Next: how shall we define the whale, by his obvious externals, so as
conspicuously to label him for all time to come?  To be short, then, a whale
is a spouting fish with a horizontal tail.  There you have him.
Coffin, of Nantucket, both messmates of mine in a certain voyage, and they
point is, in what internal respect does the whale differ from other fish.
amphibious.  but the last term of the definition is still more cogent, as
meritoque.  I submitted all this to my friends Simeon Macey and Charley
incomplete indications but serve to torture us naturalists.  Thus speak of
intrantem feminam mammis lactantem, and finally, ex lege naturae jure
invariably assumes a horizontal position.  By the above definition of what a
pyramid, a sort of badger-haired old merman, with a hump on his back, takes
bilocular heart, their lungs, their movable eyelids, their hollow ears, penem
.. <p 132 >
grounds upon which Linnaeus would fain have banished
regarded as alien.  Hence, all the smaller, spouting,
,
, Linnaeus declares, I hereby separate the whales
Now, then, come the grand divisions of the entire whale host.  First:
According to magnitude I divide the whales into three primary BOOKS
System of Nature, A. D.
and large.  I. The FOLIO WHALE; II.  the OCTAVO WHALE;  III.  the DUODECIMO
WHALE.  As the type of the FOLIO I present the Sperm Whale; of the
visible hands; I am in earnest; and I will try.  There are some
here include the following chapters: -- I. The Sperm Whale; II.  the Right
libraries and sailed through oceans; I have had to do with whales with these
What am I that I should essay to hook the nose of this leviathan!  The awful
     I am the architect, not the builder.  But it is a ponderous task; no ordinary

matter almost indispensable to a thorough appreciative understanding of the
known as the Trumpa whale, and the Physeter whale, and the Anvil Headed whale,
be faulty.  I shall not pretend to a minute anatomical description of the
the Macrocephalus of the Long Words.  He is, without doubt, the largest
inhabitant of the globe; the most formidable of all whales to encounter; the
any human thing supposed to be complete, must for that very reason infallibly
I hereupon offer my own poor endeavors.  I promise nothing complete; because
obtained.  All his peculiarities will, in many other places, be enlarged upon.
subsequent laborers.  As no better man advances to take this matter in hand,
all other hunted whales, his is an unwritten life.  Now the various species of
original matter touching the sperm whale to be found in their volumes is
unknown in his own proper individuality, and when his oil was only
.. <p 131 >
walrus spouts much like a whale, but the walrus is not a fish, because he is
whale is, I do by no means exclude from the leviathanic brotherhood any sea
before you, and at the same time, in the remotest degree succeed in the
only two books in being which at all pretend to put the living sperm whale
those times, also, spermaceti was exceedingly scarce, not being used for
Greenland whale is deposed, --the great sperm whale now reigneth!  There are
days, will satisfy you that the Greenland whale, without one rival, was to
Reference to nearly all the leviathanic allusions in the great poets of past
his claims, and the profound ignorance which, till some seventy years back,
by any means the largest of the whales.  Yet, owing to the long priority of
known, its original name was still retained by the dealers; no doubt to
enhance its value by a notion so strangely significant of its scarcity.  And
so the appellation must at last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from
which this spermaceti was really derived.  BOOK I. ( Folio), CHAPTER II.
harpooneer and whaleman.  I mean Captain Scoresby.  On the separate subject of
Owen ever saw living whales; and but one of them was a real professional
Cuvier; John Hunter; Owen; Scoresby; Beale; Bennett; J. Ross Browne; the
Brisson; Marten; Lacepede; Bonneterre; Desmarest; Baron Cuvier; Frederick
Gesner; Ray; Linnaeus; Rondeletius; Willoughby; Green; Artedi; Sibbald;
indiscriminately designated by all the following titles: The Whale; the
Greenland Whale; the Black Whale; the Great Whale; the True Whale; the Right
whale.  there is a deal of obscurity concerning the identity of the species
thus multitudinously baptized.  What then is the whale, which I include in
Authors of the Bible; Aristotle; Pliny; Aldrovandi; Sir Thomas Browne;
     who have at large or in little, written of the whale.  Run over a few: --The
Ordinaire of the French whalemen; the Growlands Walfish of the Swedes.  It is
the whale which for more than two centuries past has been hunted by the Dutch
and English in the Arctic seas; it is the whale which the American fishermen

a plenty; and so in some small degree, with cetology, or the science of
never speak to him, whatever he says.  Halloa!  what's that he shouts?  Hark!
whale of the English and the right whale of the Americans.  But they precisely
.. <p 130 >
in my hammock!  Now, what do you think of that dream, Flask?  I don't know;
subdivisions based upon the most inconclusive differences, that some
.  Unfitness to pursue our
whale will be elsewhere treated of at some length, with reference to
elucidating the sperm whale.  BOOK I. ( Folio), CHAPTER III. ( Fin-Back).
(sperm whale), says Surgeon Beale, A. D.
.  It is not my intention, were it in my power, to enter
commonly the whale whose distant jet is so often descried by passengers
crossing the Atlantic, in the New York
Listen to what the best and latest authorities have laid down.  No branch of
packet-tracks.  In the length he attains, and in his baleen, the Fin-back
resembles the right whale, but is of a less portly girth, and a lighter
classification of the constituents of a chaos, nothing less is here essayed.
CHAPTER I. ( Sperm Whale). --This whale, among the English of old vaguely
distinguishing feature, the fin, from which he derives his name, is often a
conspicuous object.  this fin is some three or four feet long, growing
vertically from the hinder part of the back, of an angular shape, and with a
very sharp pointed end.  Even if not the slightest other part of the creature
barnacled hulls of the leviathan; at the outset it is but well to attend to a
     that come to pass; ere the Pequod's weedy hull rolls side by side with the
spherical ripples, and this gnomon-like fin stands up and casts shadows upon
the wrinkled surface, it may well be supposed that the watery circle
surrounding it somewhat resembles a dial, with its style and wavy hour-lines

     Already we are boldly launched upon the
shy; always going solitary; unexpectedly rising to the surface in the
remotest and most sullen waters; his straight and single lofty jet rising

with the one then known in England as the Greenland or Right Whale.  It was
man; this leviathan seems the banished and unconquerable Cain of his race,
.. < chapter xxxii 6  CETOLOGY >
mouth, the Fin-Back is sometimes included with the right whale, among a
theoretic species denominated Whalebone whales, that is, whales with baleen.
.. <p 129 >
.. <p 129 >
varieties, most of which, however, are little known.  Broad-nosed whales and
beaked whales; pike-headed whales; bunched whales; under-jawed whales and
     Mast-head, there!  Look sharp, all of ye!  There are whales hereabouts!  If
with this appellative of Whalebone whales , it is of great importance to
mention, that however such a nomenclature may be convenient in facilitating

familiar to landsmen have not a flat, but a vertical, or up-and-down tail.
fin, or teeth; notwithstanding that those marked parts or features very
kept muttering it all the time, a sort of eating of his own gums like a
obviously seem better adapted to afford the basis for a regular system of
account kick back; for you can't help yourself, wise Stubb.  Don't you see
Remember what I say; be kicked by him; account his kicks honors; and on no
things whose peculiarities are indiscriminately dispersed among all sorts of
whales, without any regard to what may be the nature of their structure in
     your boast, Stubb, that ye were kicked by old Ahab, and made a wise man of.

but there again the similitude ceases.  And it is just the same with the other
full of marlinspikes, with the points out.  Says I, on second thoughts,"I
parts above mentioned.  In various sorts of whales, they form such irregular
great man, and with a beautiful ivory leg, Stubb.  It's an honor; I consider
     leg, didn't he?" "Yes, he did," says I. "Well then," says he, "wise Stubb,

anatomy --there, at least, we shall be able to hit the right classification.
kick?"  By the lord, Flask, I had no sooner said that, than he turned round
"Halloa," says I,"what's the matter now, old fellow?" "Look ye here," says
impossible correctly to classify the Greenland whale.  And if you descend
into the bowels of the various leviathans, why there you will not find
may possibly be conceived that, in the internal parts of the whale, in his
Cruising Grounds.  Some pretend to see a difference between the Greenland
guess I won't kick you, old fellow." "Wise Stubb," said he,"wise Stubb;" and
of the whales bodily, in their entire liberal volume, and boldly sort them
that way.  And this is the Bibliographical system here adopted; and it is the
only one that can possibly succeed, for it alone is practicable.  To proceed.
this same humpbacked whale and the Greenland whale, each of these has baleen;
clout --what do you think, I saw? --why thunder alive, man, his stern was stuck
into harbor.  He has a great pack on him like a peddler; or you might call
striking than his baleen?  Yet we have seen that by his baleen it is
.. <p 128 >
would seem, was popularly supposed to be derived from a creature identical
wondrous power and velocity in swimming, as to defy all present pursuit from
     It was during the more pleasant weather,
after a three, four, or five years' voyage she is drawing nigh home with
is very discreet and scientific here, yet, for all his learned binnacle
deviations, azimuth compass observations, and approximate errors, he
knows very well, Captain Sleet, that he was not so much immersed in those
many broken-down blacksmiths among her crew; I say, that though the Captain
miles, and more, to sail ere reaching her proper cruising ground.  and if,
profound magnetic meditations, as to fail being attracted occasionally towards
magnets; an error ascribable to the horizontal vicinity of the iron in the
errors resulting from what is called the local attraction of all binnacle
seeing what a faithful friend and comforter it must have been, while with
nailed cleats, something as fowls go upstairs in a hen-house.  A few years
crow's-nest; but though he so enlarges upon many of these, and though he
a very different thing.  Now, it was plainly a labor of love for Captain Sleet
ship's planks, and in the Glacier's case, perhaps, to there having been so
that well replenished little case-bottle, so nicely tucked in on one side of
.. <p 155 >
conveniences.  When Captain Sleet in person stood his mast-head in this crow's
tells us, that in the early times of the whale fishery, ere ships were
in which to keep your speaking trumpet, pipe, telescope, and other nautical
ascend into it through a little trap-hatch in the bottom.  On the after side,
being the original inventors and patentees), so likewise should we denominate
of it here, and frankly admit that I kept but sorry guard.  With the problem
of the universe revolving in me, how could I--being left completely to myself
holding that if we call our own children after our own names (we fathers
of the Glacier, which was the name of Captain Sleet's good craft.  He called
obligations to observe all whale-ships' standing orders, Keep your weather
charmingly circumstantial account of the then recently invented crow's-nest
the deck owing to the resistance of the water, but to shoot down upon them is
fisheries any lad with lean brow and hollow eye; given to unseasonable
Voyage among the Icebergs, in quest of the Greenland Whale, and incidentally
in his head.  Beware of such an one, I say; your whales must be seen before
they can be killed; and this sunken-eyed young Platonist will tow you ten
wakes round the world, and never make you one pint of sperm the richer.  Nor
the frozen seas.  In the fire-side narrative of Captain Sleet, entitled A
lookouts of a Greenland whaler are protected from the inclement weather of
deplored that the mast-heads of a southern whale ship are unprovided with
as it is a mere envelope, or additional skin encasing you.  You cannot put a
mast-head of some luckless disappointed whale-ship, and in moody phrase
fire.  But neither great Washington, nor Napoleon, nor Nelson, will answer a
crossing the snowy Alps in winter); so a watch-coat is not so much of a house
ships take those absent-minded young philosophers to task, upbraiding them
widely contrasting serenity of those seductive seas in which we South fishers
.. <p 154 >
unclad body; for as the soul is glued inside
with not feeling sufficient interest in the voyage; half-hinting that they
as cosy as he would standing on a bull's horns.  To be sure, in cold weather
gallant cross-trees.  Here, tossed about by the sea, the beginner feels about
these lads, we've been cruising now hard upon three years, and thou hast not
raised a whale yet.  Whales are scarce as hen's teeth whenever thou art up
small and snug contrivances in which men temporarily isolate themselves.  Your
the far horizon; but lulled into such an opium-like listlessness of vacant,
unconscious reverie is this absent-minded youth by the blending cadence of
waves with thoughts, that at last he loses his identity; takes the mystic
hammock, a hearse, a sentry box, a pulpit, a coach, or any other of those
considerable a portion of the whole term of your natural life, should be so
pervading mankind and nature; and every strange, half-seen, gliding,
months.  And it is much to be deplored that the place to which you devote so
undiscernible form, seems to him the embodiment of those elusive thoughts that
only people the soul by continually flitting through it.  In this enchanted
into unnecessary excitements; you hear of no domestic afflictions; bankrupt
everything resolves you into languor.  For the most part, in this tropic
part of every shore the round globe over.  There is no life in thee, now,
except that rocking life imparted by a gently rolling ship; by her, borrowed
stand, lost in the infinite series of the sea, with nothing ruffled but the
sleep, this dream is on ye, move your foot or hand an inch; slip your hold
deep, as if the masts were gigantic stilts, while beneath you and between
There you stand, a hundred feet above the silent decks, striding along the
half-throttled shriek you drop through that transparent air into the summer
sea, no more to rise for ever.  Heed it well, ye Pantheists!
pleasant the mast-head; nay, to a dreamy meditative man it is delightful.
at sea.  The three mast-heads are kept manned from sun-rise to sun-set; the
.. <p 153 >
ago this same plan was adopted by the Bay whalemen of New Zealand, who, upon
was not a great while after the affair of the pipe, that one morning shortly
mittened fingers and hooded head he was studying the mathematics aloft there
lofty spars along the sea-coast, to which the look-outs ascended by means of
resting in the top to have a chat with Queequeg, or any one else off duty whom
steady, ivory stride was heard, as to and fro he paced his old rounds, upon
Macy, the sole historian of Nantucket, stands accountable.  The worthy Obed
any respect the mast-head standers of the land with those of the sea; but
too, upon that ribbed
     shoals and what rocks must be shunned.  It may seem unwarrantable to couple in

foot-prints of his one unsleeping, ever-pacing thought.  But on the occasion in
left a deeper mark.  And, so full of his thought was Ahab, that at every
modern ship sing out for a sail, or a whale just bearing in sight.  In Saint
progenitors, the builders of Babel, must doubtless, by their tower, have
single hail from below, however madly invoked to befriend by their counsels
mount to the apex, and sing out for new stars; even as the look-outs of a
Trafalgar Square; and ever when most obscured by that London smoke, token is
Admiral Nelson, also, on a capstan of gun-metal, stands his mast-head in
Blanc, or Louis the Devil.  Great Washington, too, stands high aloft on his
any strange sight.  There is Napoleon; who, upon the top of the column of
wore on; --Ahab now shut up within his cabin; anon, pacing the deck, with the
same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect.  It drew near the close of day.
are still entirely incompetent to the business of singing out upon discovering
     Of modern standers-of-mast-heads we have but a lifeless set; mere stone,
the auger-hole there, and with one hand grasping a shroud, he ordered Starbuck

but valiantly facing everything out to the last, literally died at his post.
never given on ship-board except in some extraordinary case.  Send everybody
his life on its summit, hoisting his food from the ground with a tackle; in
.. <p 152 >
were eyeing him, for he looked not unlike the weather horizon when a storm is
intended to rear the loftiest mast-head in all Asia, or Africa either; yet
Stylites, the famous Christian hermit of old times, who built him a lofty
half-slouched hat he continued to pace, unmindful of the wondering whispering
question, those dents looked deeper, even as his nervous step that morning
soul were nigh him resumed his heavy turns upon the deck.  With bent head and
summoned them there for the purpose of witnessing a pedestrian feat.  But this
ejaculates: -- Roll on, thou deep and dark blue ocean, roll!  Ten thousand
astronomical purposes: a theory singularly supported by the peculiar
of clubbed voices.
general belief among archaeologists, that the first pyramids were founded for
Egyptians were a nation of mast-head standers, is an assertion based upon the
(ere the final truck was put to it) as that great stone mast of theirs may be
animation into which his unexpected question had so magnetically thrown them.
anything empty in her --say, an empty vial even --then, her mast-heads are kept
coming up, Ahab, after rapidly glancing over the bulwarks, and then darting
it ye pull to, men?  A dead whale or a stove boat!  More and more strangely
because, in all my researches, I find none prior to them.  For though their
marvelling how it was that they themselves became so excited at such
seemingly purposeless questions.  But, they were all eagerness again, as Ahab,
shout; while the mariners began to gaze curiously at each other, as if
more.  Now, as the business of standing mast-heads, ashore or afloat, is a
uniform turn that he made, now at the main-mast and now at the binnacle, you
you, ye ship-owners of Nantucket!  Beware of enlisting in your vigilant
young Platonists have a notion that their vision is imperfect; they are
.. <p 174 >
Spanish Sailor No; Daggoo showing his teeth.  Daggoo ( springing) Swallow
can't be, or else in his one case our old Mogul's fire-waters are somewhat
repeated disastrous repulses, all accumulating and piling their terrors upon
one and the same instant of time.  Nor, credulous as such minds must have been,
superstitiously inclined, was the unearthly conceit that Moby Dick was
probability.  For as the secrets of the currents in the seas have never yet
last coming to be linked with the White Whale in the minds of the
from the battle if offered.  One of the wild suggestings referred to, as at
and vaguely, without the specific details of any certain calamity, and
Dick; and a still greater number who, chancing only to hear of him distantly
popularly regarded.  And as for those who, previously hearing of the White
such vast swiftness to the most widely distant points.  It is a thing well
     are some remarkable documents that may be consulted.  Nevertheless, some there
ubiquitous; that he had actually been encountered in opposite latitudes at
modes whereby, after sounding to a great depth, he transports himself with

some of these instances it has been declared that the interval of time between
the two assaults could not have exceeded very many days.  Hence, by inference,
it, would be inevitably to be torn into a quick eternity.  on this head, there
perils of this new and daring warfare; such men protesting that although
living experience of living men, the prodigies related in old times of the
oftentimes hard to induce long practised Right whalemen to embark in the
Povelson, the superstitious belief in them is, in some vicissitudes of their
Sperm Whale, all fish (sharks included) are struck with the most lively
upon authoritative record years ago by Scoresby, that some whales have been
these fabulous narrations are almost fully equalled by the realities of the
was this conceit altogether without some faint show of superstitious
For in his Natural History, the Baron himself affirms that at sight of the
consternation to every other creature in the sea, but also to be so incredibly
still further in their superstitions; declaring Moby Dick not only ubiquitous,
--Olassen and Povelson --declaring the Sperm Whale not only to be a
Southern whaling.  Nor is the pre-eminent tremendousness of the great Sperm
.. <p 178 >
.. <p 180 >
blood, such a sight would be but a ghastly deception; for again in
hearken with a childish fire-side interest and awe, to the wild, strange
more be seen.  But even stripped of these supernatural surmisings, there was
shirr!  Here have I heard all their chat just now, and the white whale
American flag, who have never hostilely encountered the Sperm Whale, but
squall!  the squall!  jump, my jollies! ( They scatter.) Pip ( shrinking
strike the imagination with unwonted power.  For, it was not so much his
uncommon bulk that so much distinguished him from other sperm whales, but, as
     as a body.  There are those this day among them, who, though intelligent and
was elsewhere thrown out --a peculiar snow-white wrinkled forehead, and a
a long distance, to those who knew him.  The rest of his body was so streaked,

     gained his distinctive appellation of the white Whale; a name, indeed,
day has the original prestige of the Sperm Whale, as fearfully distinguished
literally justified by his vivid aspect, when seen gliding at high noon
many of them adventurously pushing their quest along solitary latitudes, so
spangled with golden gleamings.  Nor was it his unwonted magnitude, nor his
remarkable hue, nor yet his deformed lower jaw, that so much invested the
through a dark blue sea, leaving a milky-way wake of creamy foam, all
other and more vital practical influences at work.  Not even at the present
half-formed foetal suggestions of supernatural agencies, which eventually
perhaps aught else.  For, when swimming before his exulting pursuers, with
did in the end incorporate with themselves all manner of morbid hints, and
hearthstone, or aught hospitable beneath that part of the sun; in such
splinters, or drive them back in consternation to their ship.  Already several
miles, and passed a thousand shores, you would not come to any chiselled
contact with whatever is appallingly astonishing in the sea; face to face
rumors which sometimes circulate there.  For not only are whalemen as a body
that every dismembering or death that he caused, was not wholly regarded as
.. <p 177 >
.. <p 181 >
dread in my soul.  A wild, mystical, sympathetical feeling was in me; Ahab's
minds of his more desperate hunters were impelled, when amid the chips of
naturally grow out of the very body of all surprising terrible events, --as the
smitten tree gives birth to its fungi; but, in maritime life, far more than
sunlight, that smiled on, as if at a birth or a bridal.  His three boats stove
hunters, to whom the story of the White Whale had eventually come.  Nor did
Moby Dick; those things had gone far to shake the fortitude of many brave
.. <p 179 >
the fathom-deep life of the whale.  That captain was Ahab.  And then it was,
that suddenly sweeping his sickle-shaped lower jaw beneath him, Moby Dick had
every one of them, almost, as boldly and fearlessly lowered for him, as for
have no bowels to feel fear!
malice.  Small reason was there to doubt, then, that ever since that almost
mostly, the disastrous encounter between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been
battle to Moby Dick; such hunters, perhaps, for the most part, were content
attacked; therefore it was, that those who by accident ignorantly gave
spiritual exasperations.  The White Whale swam before him as the monomaniac
incarnation of all those malicious agencies which some deep men feel eating in
them, till they are left living on with half a heart and half a lung.  That
intangible malignity which has been from the beginning; to whose dominion
completely escaped them; to some minds it was not an unfair presumption, I
malignity, which whale, after doing great mischief to his assailants, had
whaleman.  Forced into familiarity, then, with such prodigies as these; and
.. <p 176 >
hard!  Jimmini, what a squall!  But those chaps there are worse yet --they are
whereby, even in the limitless, uncharted seas, he revealed his identity, at
subtle demonisms of life and thought; all evil, to crazy Ahab, were visibly
disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery circumference,
whale's white hump the sum of all the general rage and hate felt by his whole
race from Adam down; and then, as if his chest had been a mortar, he burst
existence; only a few of them, comparatively, had knowingly seen him; while
frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen.  But not all of them knew of his
quenchless feud seemed mine.  With greedy ears I learned the history of that
precise time of his bodily dismemberment.  Then, in darting at the monster,
Who'd go climbing after chestnuts now?  But there they go, all cursing, and
     I, Ishmael, was one of that crew; my shouts
felt the agonizing bodily laceration, but nothing more.  Yet, when by this
collision forced to turn towards home, and for long months of days and weeks,

white curds of the whale's direful wrath into the serene, exasperating
and gashed soul bled into one another; and so interfusing, made him mad.
captured far north in the Pacific, in whose bodies have been found the barbs
final monomania seized him, seems all but certain from the fact that, at
intervals during the passage, he was a raving lunatic; and, though unlimbed
of a leg, yet such vital strength yet lurked in his Egyptian chest, and was
moreover intensified by his delirium, that his mates were forced to lace him
have mercy on this small black boy down here; preserve him from all men that
--shirr!  shirr! --but spoken of once!  and only this evening -- it makes me
sufferable latitudes, the ship, with mild stun'sails spread, floated across
the tranquil tropics, and, to all appearances, the old man's delirium seemed
the spread through the whole world-wide whaling-fleet of the special
Tashtego ( with a whiff) A row a'low, and a row aloft --Gods and men --both
here I don't.  Fine prospects to 'em; they're on the road to heaven.  Hold on
his hidden self, raved on.  Human madness is oftentimes a cunning and most
his mates thanked God the direful madness was now gone; even then, Ahab, in
Knife thee heartily!  big frame, small spirit!  All A row!  a row!  a row!
deepeningly contracted; like the unabated Hudson, when that noble Northman
flows narrowly, but unfathomably through the Highland gorge.  But, as in his
into some still subtler form.  Ahab's full lunacy subsided not, but
narrow-flowing monomania, not one jot of Ahab's broad madness had been left
     under the windlass) Jollies?  Lord help such jollies!  Crish, crash!  there

.. <p 183 >
stormed his general sanity, and carried it, and turned all its concentred
such a furious trope may stand, his special lunacy
unensanguined billows hundreds of leagues away, his unsullied jet would once
were believed to have come from the Holy Land by an underground passage);
whale with natural terror, as that unexampled, intelligent malignity which,
winter that dreary, howling Patagonian Cape; then it was, that his torn body
with malice in it; all that cracks the sinews and cakes the brain; all the
within the very heart of this spiked Hotel de Cluny where we here stand
yet Ahab's larger, darker, deeper part remains unhinted.  But vain to
    !  Hist!  Did you hear that noise, Cabaco?
From hand to hand, the buckets went in the deepest silence, only broken by
fill the scuttle-butt.  Standing, for the most part, on the hallowed precincts
of the sperm whale.  Besides, when making a passage from one feeding-ground to
of three hundred and sixty-five days and nights was before him; an interval
premature hour of the Pequod's sailing had, perhaps, been correctly selected
sixty degrees of latitude arrive in the equatorial Pacific in time to cruise
seas far remote from his periodical feeding-grounds, should turn up his
there.  Therefore, he must wait for the next ensuing season.  Yet the
make the great passage southwards, double Cape Horn, and then running down
Season-on-the-Line.  No possible endeavor then could enable her commander to
brooding soul into this unfaltering hunt, he would not permit himself to rest
cautious comprehensiveness and unloitering vigilance with which Ahab threw his
the devious zig-zag world-circle of the Pequod's circumnavigating wake.  But
hunters believe that, could he be closely observed and studied throughout the
most of the deadly encounters with the white whale had taken place; there the
if encountered, should be thought capable of individual recognition from his
consecutive years, Moby Dick had been periodically descried, lingering in
probabilities, and, as Ahab fondly thought, every possibility the next thing
snow-white hump, could not but be unmistakable.  And have I not tallied the
whale, Ahab would mutter to himself, as after poring over his charts till
his object have hitherto been spoken of, allusion has only been made to
.. <p 198 >
sheep's ear!  And here, his mad mind would run on in a breathless race; till
food; and, also, calling to mind the regular, ascertained seasons for hunting
the deck he would seek to recover his strength.  Ah, God!  what trances of
torments does that man endure who is consumed with one unachieved revengeful
     she would infallibly encounter him there.  So, too, with some other feeding

intolerably vivid dreams of the night, which, resuming his own intense
thoughts through the day, carried them on amid a clashing of phrensies, and
which, instead of impatiently enduring ashore, he would spend in a
Volcano Bay on the Japanese Coast; yet it did not follow, that were the
less wide limit, applies to the solitaries and hermits among the matured, aged
fully acquainted with the ways of the leviathans, it might seem an absurdly
contrary of this has proved true.  In general, the same remark, only within a
be identically the same with those that were found there the preceding
himself yawned beneath him, a wild cry would be heard through the ship; and
whirled them round and round in his blazing brain, till the very throbbing of
hunted such and such a latitude or longitude this year, say, will turn out to
his delirious but still methodical scheme.  But not so in the reality,
were but the plainest tokens of its intensity.  For, at such times, crazy
a meeting.  There was a circumstance which at first sight seemed to entangle
feeding-grounds, could Ahab hope to encounter his prey; but in crossing the
hence not only at substantiated times, upon well known separate
him to burst from it in horror again.  The latter was the eternal, living
principle or soul in him; and in sleep, being for the time dissociated from
the characterizing mind, which at other times employed it for its outer
vehicle or agent, it spontaneously sought escape from the scorching contiguity
that path, migrating whales may with great confidence be looked for.  And
is presumed to expand or contract); but never exceeds the visual sweep from
swim, generally embraces some few miles in width (more or less, as the vein
to his one supreme purpose; that purpose, by its own sheer inveteracy of
will, forced itself against gods and devils into a kind of self-assumed,
the direction taken by any one whale be straight as a surveyor's parallel, and
     veins, as they are called; continuing their way along a given ocean-line
unbidden and unfathered birth.  Therefore, the tormented spirit that glared
out of bodily eyes, when what seemed Ahab rushed from his room, was for the

.. <p 197 >
in itself.  God help thee, old man, thy thoughts have created a creature in
thee; and he whose intense thinking thus makes him a Prometheus; a vulture
     another, the sperm whales, guided by some infallible instinct -- say, rather,

and shadings which there met his eye; and with slow but steady pencil trace
circular, issued by Lieutenant Maury, of the National Observatory,
himself before it, you would have seen him intently study the various lines
in invariability to those of the herring-shoals or the flights of swallows.
such a chart is in course of completion; and portions of it are presented in
collated, then the migrations of the sperm whale would be found to correspond
granting all this; yet, regarded discreetly and coolly, seems it not but a
of latitude by five degrees of longitude; perpendicularly through each of
which districts are twelve columns for the twelve months; and horizontally
through each of which districts are three lines; one to show the number of
approaching to certainties, concerning the timeliest day to be upon this or
a weariness and faintness of pondering came over him; and in the open air of
seen.
and currents; and thereby calculating the driftings of the sperm whale's
chasm seemed opening in him, from which forked flames and lightnings shot up,
accomplishment of that monomaniac thought of his soul.  Now, to any one not
brought out; almost every night some pencil marks were effaced, and others
narrative in this book; and, indeed, as indirectly touching one or two very
interesting and curious particulars in the habits of sperm whales, the
his cabin, Ahab thus pondered over his charts.  Almost every night they were
.. <p 196 >
lines and courses on the wrinkled charts, some invisible pencil was also
understood, and moreover to take away any incredulity which a profound
had been captured or seen.  While thus employed, the heavy pewter lamp
and places in which, on various former voyages of various ships, sperm whales
induce in some minds, as to the natural verity of the main points of this
Since the above was written, the statement is happily borne out by an official
by Ahab, with a view to this very complexion of things.  Because, an interval
practically or reliably known to me as a whaleman; and from these citations,
     Had you followed Captain Ahab down into his

harpoon, has effected a complete escape; and, after an interval (in one
instance of three years), has been again struck by the same hand, and slain;
when the two irons, both marked by the same private cypher, have been taken
.. < chapter xliv 12  THE CHART >
.. <p 195 >
than that; the man who darted them happening, in the interval, to go in a
trading ship on a voyage to Africa, went ashore there, joined a discovery
been seen on deck; and I suspect our old Mogul knows something of it too.  I
Hark ye, Cabaco, there is somebody down in the after-hold that has not yet

.. <p 195 >
its travels; no doubt it had thrice circumnavigated the globe, brushing with
of unknown regions.  Meanwhile, the whale he had struck must also have been on
damned!  Pass along that return bucket.  There again --there it is! --it sounds
myself, have known three instances similar to this; that is in two of them I
saw the whales struck; and, upon the second attack, saw the two irons with
the respective marks cut in them, afterwards taken from the dead fish.  In the
three-year instance, it so fell out that I was in the boat both times, first
whale again came together, and the one vanquished the other.  I say I,
Cholo, the words above.  Hist!  did you hear that noise, Cabaco?  Take the
cordon, whose post was near the after-hatches, whispered to his neighbor, a
wrinkled brow off the Persian Gulf, or in the Bengal Bay, or China Seas, or
with glaring eyes Ahab would burst from his state room, as though escaping
Queequeg, while busy at the mat.  As I kept passing and repassing the
and subdued and yet somehow preluding was all the scene, and such an
incantation of revery lurked in the air, that each silent sailor seemed
the command.  Captain Ahab?-- said Starbuck.  Spread yourselves, cried Ahab;
loudly hailed Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask, to spread themselves widely, so as
and showed the five strangers rowing Ahab, who, standing erect in the stern,
a fourth keel, coming from the windward side, pulled round under the stern,
oar.  Lay back!  addressing his crew.  There! --there! --there again!  There
she blows right ahead, boys! -- lay back!  Never heed yonder yellow boys,
.. <p 216 >
boats below.  Hardly had they pulled out from under the ship's lee, when
the swart Fedallah and his crew, the inmates of the other boats obeyed not
hearts-alive; pull, my children; pull, my little ones, drawingly and
round in the blocks; with a wallow, the three boats dropped into the sea;
to cover a large expanse of water.  but with all their eyes again riveted upon
stare at?  Those chaps in yonder boat?  Tut!  They are only five more hands
spite of their amazement the men sprang over the rail; the sheaves whirled
deck.  Lower away there, I say.  Such was the thunder of his voice, that
there you are now; that's the stroke for a thousand pounds; that's the
stroke to sweep the stakes!  Hurrah for the gold cup of sperm oil, my heroes!
company were gazing upon these strangers, Ahab cried out to the
subtilty, and by some honest white mariners supposed to be the paid spies and
and round upon his head.  Less swart in aspect, the companions of this figure
and strong.  Give way there, give way!  The devil fetch ye, ye ragamuffin
cries.  To be sure the same sound was that very moment perhaps being heard all
threads of the warp subject to but one single, ever returning, unchanging
uneasiness.  Why don't you break your backbones, my boys?  What is it you
starboard quarter.  The figure that now stood by its bows was tall and swart,
     The phantoms, for so they then

mother's son of ye draw his knife, and pull with the blade between his teeth.
.. < chapter xlviii 2  THE FIRST LOWERING >
.. <p 215 >
steel-bits.  Start her --start her, my silver-spoons!  Start her,
marling-spikes!  Stubb's exordium to his crew is given here at large, because
instant a sudden exclamation was heard that took every eye from the whale.
about to throw themselves on board an enemy's ship.  But at this critical
expectantly poised on the gunwale.  So look the long line of man-of-war's men
specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions with
prescribed to by both, chance by turns rules either, and has the last
their eager crews with one hand clung to the rail, while one foot was
relieved the Indian at the main-mast head.  The sailors at the fore and
for shipkeepers -- that is, those not appointed to the boats, by this time
Whale when, sounding with his head in one direction, he nevertheless, while
advance of our bows.  For that singular craft at times evinced by the Sperm
managed his steering-oar, and so broadly gaped --open-mouthed at times --that
the mere sight of such a yawning commander, by sheer force of contrast,
down heading to leeward, we confidently looked to see them again directly in
     Time!  time!  Dough-Boy hurried below, glanced at the watch, and reported

sign from Ahab, Starbuck was now pulling obliquely across Stubb's bow; and
when for a minute or so the two boats were pretty near to each other, Stubb
from Tashtego; and the whales disappeared.  Quick, steward!  cried Ahab.
Instantly all was commotion.  The Sperm Whale blows as a clock ticks, with the
inch as he spoke; still earnestly but whisperingly urging his crew; his face
set like a flint from Stubb's.  What think ye of those yellow boys, sir!
     Where-away?  On the lee-beam, about two miles off!  a school of them!

     in a whisper to his crew, then speaking out loud again: A sad business,
.. <p 214 >
Mr. Stubb! (seethe her, seethe her, my lads!) but never mind, Mr. Stubb,
all for the best.  Let all your crew pull strong, come what will. (Spring, my
men, spring!)
horizon, you would have thought him some prophet or seer beholding the
rapscallions; ye are all asleep.  Stop snoring, ye sleepers, and pull.  Pull,
stretched out like a wand, and at brief sudden intervals he continued his
at a sound so strange, long drawn, and musically wild and unearthly, that the
when the boats diverged, as soon as I clapt eye on 'em, I thought so.  Aye,
featuring blow at events.  Thus we were weaving and weaving away when I started
his congregation.  Not at all; and therein consisted his chief peculiarity.
it.  Well, well, so be it!  Can't be helped!  All right!  Give way, men!  It
necessity, and sideways in its motions directed by free will, though thus
strangers at such a critical instant as the lowering of the boats from the
--aye, chance, free will, and necessity --no wise incompatible --all
and fashions both warp and woof; this easy, indifferent sword must be chance
completed fabric; this savage's sword, thought I, which thus finally shapes
previous got abroad among them, though indeed not credited then, this had in
some small measure prepared them for the event.  It took off the extreme edge
concluding blow producing a corresponding contrast in the final aspect of the
destiny into these unalterable threads.  Meantime, Queequeg's impulsive,
superstitious surmisings; though the affair still left abundant room for all
manner of wild conjectures as to dark Ahab's precise agency in the matter from
the beginning.  For me, I silently recalled the mysterious shadows I had seen
here, thought I, with my own hand I ply my own shuttle and weave my own
hand for the shuttle, and as Queequeg, standing sideways, ever and anon slid
.. <p 213 >
ranging ahead of the other boats; a circumstance bespeaking how potent a crew
was pulling him.  those tiger yellow creatures of his seemed all steel and
whale-bone; like five trip-hammers they rose and fell with regular strokes of
     were the Loom of Time, and I myself were a shuttle mechanically weaving and

displayed his naked chest with the whole part of his body above the gunwale,
filling or woof of marline between the long yarns of the warp, using my own
broken by the intermitting dull sound of the sword, that it seemed as if this
his heavy oaken sword between the threads, and idly looking off upon the
seen pulling the harpooneer oar, he had thrown aside his black jacket, and
will ye?  pull, can't ye?  pull, won't ye?  Why in the name of gudgeons and
you dogs!  So, so, so, then; --softly, softly!  That's it -- that's it!  long
ye, Cabaco?  They are stowaways, Mr. Flask.  Pull, pull, my fine
about the open sea on planks, bits of wreck, oars, whale-boats, canoes,
and ash-holes of the earth to man these floating outlaws of whalers; and the
blown-off Japanese junks, and what not; that Beelzebub himself might climb up
desolation, and therefore fit roosting-place for their homeless selves.  And
heaved and heaved, still unrestingly heaved the black sea, as if its vast
impressive was the cry, and so deliriously exciting, that almost every soul
morning, perched on our stays, rows of these birds were seen; and spite of
our hootings, for a long time obstinately clung to the hemp, as though they
rigging, and hailed the mortal crew.  There she blows!  Had the trump of
Close to our bows, strange forms in the water darted hither and thither before
tides were a conscience; and the great
transformed into those fowls and these fish, seemed condemned to swim on
silver chips, the foam-flakes flew over her bulwarks; then all this desolate
all space, in repugnance to our vengeful errand, seemed vacating itself of
and days we voyaged along, through seas so wearily, lonesomely mild, that
us, we found ourselves launched into this tormented sea, where guilty beings
though assuming for the time the almost continual command of the drenched and
potency from the contrasting serenity of the weather, in which, beneath all
These temporary apprehensions, so vague but so awful, derived a wondrous

the issue of the gale.  Then Captain and crew become practical fatalists.
of these moonlight nights, it was his wont to mount to the main-mast head,
self-same whale; and that whale, Moby Dick.  For a time, there reigned, too, a
us; while thick in our rear flew the inscrutable sea-ravens.  And every
far apart latitudes and longitudes, that unnearable spout was cast by one
ever alluring us on.  Nor with the immemorial superstition of their race, and
stood in a line along the bulwarks in the waist; and the better to guard
advancing still further and further in our van, this solitary jet seemed for
.. <p 232 >
seethings, made what seemed a silvery silence, not a solitude: on such a
but to wonder at it.  Mysteriously jetted into the clear moonlight,
all; but upon making sail to overtake it, once more it disappeared as if it
the waves rolled by like scrolls of silver; and, by their soft, suffusing
the ocean prevailed; still in silence the men swung in the bowlines; still
windward, while an occasional squall of sleet or snow would all but congeal
at the same silent hour, it was again announced: again it was descried by
     man walked.  But though the ship so swiftly sped, and though from every eye,
to mark how the
being off the mouth of the Rio de la Plata; and the Carrol Ground, an

floor-screwed chair; the rain and half-melted sleet of the storm from which
he had some time before emerged, still slowly dripping from the unremoved hat
stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin-tap.  On life and death this old
influences were struggling in her --one to mount direct to heaven, the other
air beneath the feet; while still she rushed along, as if two antagonistic
     and every stunsail spread.  The best man in the ship must take the helm.
so that the closed eyes were pointed towards the needle of the tell-tale that
swung from a beam in the ceiling.  Terrible old man!  thought Starbuck with a

.. < chapter lii 13  THE ALBATROSS >
.. <p 230 >
deemed our ship some drifting, uninhabited craft; a thing appointed to
distant Crozetts, a good cruising ground for Right Whalemen, a sail loomed
indulged in mundane amours.
mariner started to his feet as if some winged spirit had lighted in the
mundane soul were in anguish and remorse for the long sin and suffering it had
after spending his uniform interval there for several successive nights
.. <p 231 >
skeleton of a stranded walrus.  All down her sides, this spectral appearance
was traced with long channels of reddened rust, while all her spars and her
So, with his ivory leg inserted into its accustomed hole, and with one hand
glittering god uprising from the sea.  Fedallah first descried this jet.  For
look-outs at those three mast-heads.  They seemed clad in the skins of
no words were spoken; and the silent ship, as if manned by painted sailors in
of cruising.  Standing in iron hoops nailed to the mast, they swayed and
swung over a fathomless sea;
demoniac waves.  By night the same muteness of humanity before the shrieks of
.. <p 234 >
     Days, weeks passed, and under easy
the air came so nigh to each other that we might almost have leaped from the
mast-heads of one ship to those of the other; yet, those forlorn-looking

.. < chapter li 16  THE SPIRIT-SPOUT >
ahoy!  Have ye seen the White Whale?  But as the strange captain, leaning over
cannot sustain
in vain strove to make himself heard without it.  Meantime his ship was still
increasing the distance between.  While in various silent ways the seamen of
somehow fell from his hand into the sea; and the wind now rising amain, he
the Pequod were evincing their observance of this ominous incident at the
it might have been even authority over him; all this none knew.  But one
perch at the fore-mast-head, I had a good view of that sight so remarkable to
and all men his descendants, unknowing whence he came, eyed each other as

by her aspect that the stranger vessel was a Nantucketer and shortly bound
home, he loudly hailed -- Ahoy there!  This is the Pequod, bound round the
wordless ahab stood up to the blast.  Even when wearied nature seemed
this time three years, if I am not at home, tell them to address them to-----
communities, especially the Oriental isles to the east of the continent --those
.. <p 230 >
some days before had been placidly swimming by our side, darted away with what
seemed shuddering fins, and ranged themselves fore and aft with the
stranger's flanks.  Though in the course of his continual voyagings Ahab must
the pallid bulwarks, was in the act of putting his trumpet to his mouth, it
veriest trifles capriciously carry meanings.  Swim away from me, do ye?
on board instinctively desired a lowering.  Walking the deck with quick,
words, but the tone conveyed more of deep helpless sadness than the insane
Whence he came in a mannerly world like this, by what sort of unaccountable
it may, certain it is that while the subordinate phantoms soon found their
would at times be descried.  During all this blackness of the elements, Ahab,
world!  Tell them to address all future letters to the Pacific ocean!  and
account of his being a part owner in her.  So when they were working that
evening at the pumps, there was on this head no small gamesomeness slily
going on among them, as they stood with their feet continually overflowed by
gentlemen, stole over Steelkilt.  Therefore, in his ordinary tone, only a
little broken by the bodily exhaustion he was temporarily in, he answered him
or nothing all day.  To this, Radney replied with an oath, in a most
really valiant men even when aggrieved --this nameless phantom feeling,
any already ireful being --a repugnance most felt, when felt at all, by
.. <p 247 >
as he was by his spasmodic toil at the pumps, for all his first nameless
feeling of forbearance the sweating Steelkilt could but ill brook this bearing
in the mate; but somehow still smothering the conflagration within him,
saying that sweeping the deck was not his business, and he would not do it.
incensed Radney shook the hammer within a few inches of his face, furiously
moment, and as he steadfastly looked into the mate's malignant eye and
round the windlass, steadily followed by the mate with his menacing hammer,
comprehended when the mate uttered his command.  But as he sat still for a
Radney had spat in his face.  Any man who has gone sailor in a whale-ship will
intimation with his twisted hand he warned off the foolish and infatuated man;
between the two men.  But there was more than this: the order about the
all these particulars so that you may understand exactly how this affair stood
the customary sweepers; who, not being billeted at the pumps, had done little
model of his nose." "Damn your eyes!  what's that pump stopping for?" roared
     with truly nautical duties, such being the case with his comrades.  I mention
windlass; when, resolved at last no longer to retreat, bethinking him that
invested in looking-glasses.  I wonder if he'd give a poor devil like me the

consequently he should have been freed from any trivial business not connected
insufferable maledictions.  Retreating not the thousandth part of an inch;
stabbing him in the eye with the unflinching poniard of his glance,
steelkilt, clenching his right hand behind him and creepingly drawing it back,
Steelkilt had been regularly assigned captain of one of the gangs;
the stronger men in the Town-Ho that had been divided into gangs, taking
without speaking he remained doggedly rooted to his seat, till at last the
but raging gales is regularly attended to every evening; it has been known to
sweeping a ship's deck at sea is a piece of household work which in all times
and sweep down the planks, and also a shovel, and remove some offensive
the backstays leading far aloft to where two of his comrades were standing
their mast-heads.  They were both Canallers.  "Canallers!" cried Don Pedro,
Intolerably striding along the deck, the mate commanded him to get a broom
belonging to our grand Erie Canal.  You must have heard of it." "Nay, Senor;
fiend it was, gentlemen, that possessed Radney to meddle with such a man in
bloodshot, and wiping the profuse sweat from his brow.  Now what cozening
the job; he's come back again with a gang of ship-carpenters, saw-fish, and
of the hull and tow it home.  The fact is, boys, that sword-fish only began
heard which denotes the fullest tension of life's utmost energies.  Quitting
 "Aye, aye, sir," said Steelkilt, merry as a cricket.  "Lively, boys, lively,
.. <p 246 >

the pump at last, with the rest of his band, the Lakeman went forward all
the state of New York; through numerous populous cities and most thriving
     Radney, pretending not to have heard the sailors' talk.  "Thunder away at it!"

contrasting scenery of those noble Mohawk counties; and especially, by rows of
father.  But Radney, the mate, was ugly as a mule; yet as hardy, as stubborn,
snow-white chapels, whose spires stand almost like milestones, flows one
he had now forborne as much as comported with his humor, the Lakeman paused
through sun and shade; by happy hearts or broken; through all the wide
next door to you; under the long-flung shadow, and the snug patronizing lee
flowing golden beard like the tasseled housings of your last viceroy's
Rad were here now, I'd tell him to jump overboard and scatter 'em.  They're
cutting and slashing at the bottom; making improvements, I suppose.  If old
that they ever encamp around the halls of justice, so sinners, gentlemen,
most abound in holiest vicinities.  "Is that a friar passing?" said Don
file-fish, and what not; and the whole posse of 'em are now hard at work
conceives an unconquerable dislike and bitterness; and if he have a chance
laughed Don Sebastian.  "Proceed, Senor." "A moment!  Pardon!" cried another
of the company.  "In the name of all us Limeese, I but desire to express to
substituting present Lima for distant Venice in your corrupt comparison.  Oh!
true Ashantee, gentlemen; there howl your pagans; where you ever find them,
little of your vigorous North." "Aye?  Well then, Don, refill my cup.  Your
 "Aye, aye, my merry lads, it's a lively leak this; hold a cannikin, one of
So, too, Venice; I have been there; the holy city of the blessed evangelist,
St.  Mark! --St.  Dominic, purge it!  Your cup!  Thanks: here I refill;  now,
in command over his fellow-men finds one of them to be very significantly his
as malicious.  He did not love Steelkilt, and Steelkilt knew it.  Espying the
conventional world of ours --watery or otherwise; that when a person placed
coming still closer to him, where the Lakeman stood fixed, now shook the
wicked is he.  Like Mark Antony, for days and days along his green-turfed,
flowery Nile, he indolently floats, openly toying with his red-cheeked
he will pull down and pulverize that subaltern's tower, and make a little
this effeminacy is dashed.  The brigandish guise which the Canaller so proudly
sports; his slouched and gaily-ribboned hat betoken his grand features.  A
swart visage and bold swagger are not unshunned in cities.  Once a vagabond on
villages; through long, dismal, uninhabited swamps, and affluent, cultivated
plentiful than billiard-tables, and for ever open--and Corrupt as Lima.
prime redeeming qualities of your man of violence, that at times he has as
stiff an arm to back a poor stranger in a strait, as to plunder a wealthy
would murder him.  But, gentlemen, the fool had been branded for the slaughter
.. <p 245 >
its most finished graduates, and that scarce any race of mankind, except
you.  Take that hammer away, or look to yourself."  But the predestinated mate
you, sir sailor, that we have by no means overlooked your delicacy in not
into the sea, on the other flank of the whale.  He struck out through the
mate.  That instant, as he fell on the whale's slippery back, the boat
righted, and was dashed aside by the swell, while Radney was tossed over
Auto-da-Fes in Lima now," said one of the company to another: "I fear our
sailor friend runs risk of the archiepiscopacy.  Let us withdraw more out of
the Evangelists," said Don Sebastian, gravely, returning with a tall and
solemn figure.  "Let me remove my hat.  Now, venerable priest, further into
the largest sized Evangelists you can." "This is the priest, he brings you
be so good as to bring the priest also, Don?" "Though there are no
go for it; but are you well advised?  this may grow too serious." "Will you
in substance and its great items, true.  I know it to be true; it happened on
the light, and hold the Holy Book before me that I may touch it."
"but I know a worthy priest near by, who will quickly procure one for me.  I
 "Also bear with all of us, sir sailor; for we all join in Don Sebastian's
The ancient whale-cry upon first sighting a whale from the mast-head, still
the moonlight.  I see no need for this." "Excuse me for running after you,
     this story is in substance really true?  It is so passing wonderful!  Did you

     I shall ere long
Don." "Then I entreat you, tell me if to the best of your own convictions,
Islanders not to approach the ship at their peril, took one man with him, and
absolute body the whale is moored alongside the whale-ship so that he can be
fairly stepped upon there.  It may be worth while, therefore, previously to
of the boat's bottom, the Lakeman had slackened the line, so as to drop
but upon the island of Nantucket, the widow of Radney still turns to the sea
of the whale as he actually appears to the eye of the whaleman when in his own
present day confidently challenge the faith of the landsman.  It is time to
set the world right in this matter, by proving such pictures of the whale all
Tahitians, who had been somewhat used to the sea.  Chartering a small native
since those inventive but unscrupulous times when on the marble panellings of
temples, the pedestals of statues, and on shields, medallions, cups, and
arrived, and the captain was forced to enlist some of the more civilized
of men which the sailor headed.  They embarked; and so for ever got the start
sort of license prevailed, not only in most popular pictures of the whale,
.. <p 260 >
There, luck befriended him; two ships were about to sail for France, and
them in so heavy a vessel.  After taking counsel with his officers, he
that in the almost endless sculptures of that immemorial pagoda, all the
this ball; I trod the ship; I knew the crew; I have seen and talked with
again, and in due time arrived at Tahiti, his own place of destination.
 "A pretty scholar," laughed the Lakeman."Adios, Senor!" and leaping into the
me.  As soon as Steelkilt leaves me, I swear to beach this boat on yonder
of whaling should have been there shadowed forth.  The Hindoo whale referred
to, occurs in a separate department of the wall, depicting the incarnation of
captain.  "Cross your arms, sir; throw back your head.  Now, repeat after
Steelkilt; "no lies." "I am bound to Tahiti for more men." "Very good.  Let
of the latter, yet that small section of him is all wrong.  It looks more
like the tapering tail of an anaconda, than the broad palms of the true
trades and pursuits, every conceivable avocation of man, were prefigured ages
captain.  "Where are you bound?  and for what are you bound?" demanded
With one foot on each prow of the yoked war-canoes, the Lakeman laughed him
     On the fourth day of the sail, a large canoe was descried, which seemed to
from the sea-monster or whale.  Where did Guido get the model of such a
strange creature as that?  Nor does Hogarth, in painting the same scene in
his own Perseus Descending, make out one whit better.  The huge corpulence

inch of water.  It has a sort of howdah on its back, and its distended tusked
mouth into which the billows are rolling, might be taken for the Traitors'
Tahiti, five hundred miles distant, to procure a reinforcement to his crew.
in the prints of old Bibles and the cuts of old primers.  What shall be said
of these?  As for the book-binder's whale winding like a vine-stalk round the
paint to you as well as one can without canvas, something like the true form
six of the foremast-men deliberately deserted among the palms; eventually, as
used by whalemen in hunting the famous Gallipagos terrapin.
cannon from the bows; stacked his muskets on the poop; and warning the
anchored the ship as far off shore as possible; loaded and ran out his two
this book-binder's fish an attempt at a whale; because it was so intended
whale's majestic flukes.  But go to the old Galleries, and look now at a great
in the famous cavern-pagoda of Elephanta, in India.  The Brahmins maintain
band of whites necessitated, both by night and by day, and so extreme was the
were popularly supposed to be a species of the Leviathan.  In the vignettes
.. <p 259 >
     business of heaving down the ship to stop the leak.  But to such unresting
hot springs and cold, Saratoga and Baden-Baden, come bubbling up from his

handful, the captain called upon the Islanders to assist him in the laborious
unexhausted brain.  In the title-page of the original edition of the
title-pages of many books both old and new --that is a very picturesque but
again; but the whale eluded them, and finally wholly disappeared.  In good
distance, Moby Dick rose again, with some tatters of Radney's red woollen
purporting to be sober, scientific delineations, by those who know.  In old
astern from the whirlpool; calmly looking on, he thought his own thoughts.
stock of a descending anchor --as stamped and gilded on the backs and
when the device was first introduced.  It was introduced by an old Italian
wrong.  It may be that the primal source of all those pictorial delusions will
business.  But, in general, they toil with their jack-knives alone; and, with
civilization inevitably restores a man to that condition in which God placed
dentistical-looking implements, specially intended for the skrimshandering
even so these monsters swam, making a strange, grassy, cutting sound; and
of his one poor jack-knife, he will carve you a bit of bone sculpture, not
Venetian blind in their mouths, was in that manner separated from the water
seethingly advance their scythes through the long wet grass of marshy meads;
reminded one of mowers.  Seen from the mast-heads, especially when they paused
from the attack of a Sperm Whaler like the Pequod, with open jaws sluggishly
     so that we seemed to be sailing through boundless fields of ripe and golden

plains recumbent elephants without knowing them to be such, taking them for
plain, you will often discover images as of the petrified forms of the
swam through the brit, which, adhering to the fringing fibres of that wondrous
recognised at last, their immense magnitude renders it very hard really to
fell in with vast meadows of brit, the minute, yellow substance, upon which
     Steering north-eastward from the Crozetts, we
other respects, you can hardly regard any creatures of the deep with the same
feelings that you do those of the shore.  For though some old naturalists have

that escaped at the lip.  As morning mowers, who side by side slowly and
coming to specialties, where, for example, does the ocean furnish any fish
that in disposition answers to the sagacious kindness of the dog?  The
.. < chapter lviii 11  BRIT >
.. <p 272 >
of the seas have ever been regarded with emotions unspeakably unsocial and
repelling; though we know the sea to be an everlasting terra incognita, so
that Columbus sailed over numberless unknown worlds to discover his one
superficial western one; though, by vast odds, the most terrific of all mortal
Hydrus and the Flying Fish.  With a frigate's anchors for my bridle-bitts and
and joined the chase against the starry Cetus far beyond the utmost stretch of
consideration will teach, that however baby man may brag of his science and
skill, and however much, in a flattering future, that science and skill may
.. <p 272 >
and round
old Dutch savage, Albert Durer.  Wooden whales, or whales cut in profile out
     trace out great whales in the starry heavens, and boats in pursuit of them;
the Right Whale largely feeds.  For leagues and leagues it undulated round us,
though taking a broad general view of the thing, this may very well be; yet

chronicled them.  Nor when expandingly lifted by your subject, can you fail to
destroyed the wrecked ships of last year.  Yea, foolish mortals, Noah's flood
differ the sea and the land, that a miracle upon one is not a miracle upon
him, i.  e.  what is called savagery.  Your true whale-hunter is as much a
the other?  Preternatural terrors rested upon the Hebrews, when under the
leaving behind them endless swaths of blue upon the yellow sea.
latitude and longitude of your first stand-point, else so chance-like are
live sea swallows up ships and crews.  But not only is the sea such a foe to
man who is an alien to it, but it is also a fiend to its own offspring;
very impressions, man has lost that sense of the full awfulness of the sea
bare, blackened elevations of the soil; even so, often, with him, who for the
high broken cliffs masses of rock lie strewn in fantastic groupings upon the
churches you will see sheet-iron whales placed there for weather-cocks; but
of ships.  No mercy, no power but its own controls it.  Panting and snorting
like a mad battle steed that has lost its rider, the masterless ocean
overruns the globe.  Consider the subtleness of the sea; how its most dreaded
hung by the tail for knockers to the road-side door.  When the porter is
accuracy.  At some old gable-roofed country houses you will see brass whales
embellished shape of many species of sharks.  Consider, once more, the
great a trophy of human perseverance as a Latin lexicon.  For, with but a bit
make; nevertheless, by the continual repetition of these
and full of barbaric spirit and suggestiveness, as the prints of that fine
sea and the land; and do you not find a strange analogy to something in
turn to this green, gentle, and most docile earth; consider them both, the
which aboriginally belongs to it.  The first boat we read of, floated on an
is not yet subsided; two thirds of the fair world it yet covers.  Wherein
With the same marvellous patience, and with the same single shark's tooth,
application.  As with the Hawaiian savage, so with the white sailor-savage.
of broken sea-shell or a shark's tooth, that miraculous intricacy of wooden
universal cannibalism of the sea; all whose creatures prey upon each other,
such observations of the hills, that your precise, previous stand-point would
yourself?  For as this appalling ocean surrounds the verdant land, so in the
worse than the Persian host who murdered his own guests; sparing not the

.. < chapter lxi 17  STUBB KILLS A WHALE >
bow of his hoisted boat, then you quick see him 'parm whale.  The next day
boys --that's all.  Start her!  Woo-hoo!  Wa-hee!  screamed the Gay-Header in
reply, raising some old war-whoop to the skies; as every oarsman in the
grinning devils, and raise the buried dead perpendicular out of their graves,
cucumbers is the word --easy, easy --only start her like grim death and
Start her, Tash, my boy --start her, all; but keep cool, keep cool--
started into wakefulness; and more than a score of voices from all parts of
smacking his lips over a mouthful of Grenadier's steak.  And thus with oars
spoke.  start her, now; give 'em the long and strong stroke, tashtego.
strained boat involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading
jeopardy, he was going head out; that part obliquely projecting from the
stroke which the eager Indian gave.
assault.  Yes, a mighty change had come over the fish.  All alive to his
van, still encouraged his men to the onset, all the while puffing the smoke
line.  An instant before, Stubb had swiftly caught two additional turns with
play.  And still puffing at his pipe, Stubb cheered on his crew to the
his sounding had elapsed, the whale rose again, and being now in advance of
igniting his pipe, for now a respite was granted.  After the full interval of
an announcement immediately followed by Stubb's producing his match and
of Stubb's hands, from which the hand-cloths, or squares of quilted canvas
sometimes worn at these times, had accidentally dropped.  It was like holding
monster perpendicularly flitted his tail forty feet into the air, and then
their indolent crests; and across the wide trance of the sea, east nodded to
stubb to the tub oarsman (him seated by the tub) who, snatching off his hat,
.. <p 283 >
all fins.  Stubb and Tashtego here changed places -- stem for stern --a
like Ontario Indians on the gunwales of the boats,
main and mizen mast-heads were already drowsy.  So that at last all three of
but with such a steady tranquillity, and making so few ripples as he swam,
ere the boats were down, majestically turning, he swam away to the leeward,
keels -- one cleaving the water, the other the air --as the boat churned
brine into the air.  clear away the boats!  luff!  cried Ahab.  And obeying
on through both opposing elements at once.  A continual cascade played at the
accustomed cry, as the great fish slowly and regularly spouted the sparkling
canted over her spasmodic gunwale into the sea.  Thus they rushed; each man
fro I idly swayed in what seemed an enchanted air.  No resolution could
like a pacing tiger in his cage.  Ka-la!  Koo-loo!  howled Queequeg, as if
close under our lee, not forty fathoms off, a gigantic Sperm Whale lay rolling
gracious agency preserved me; with a shock I came back to life.  And lo!
closed eyes; like vices my hands grasped the shrouds; some invisible,
somewhat slackened his flight.  Haul in --haul in!  cried Stubb to the
staggering business truly in that rocking commotion.  From the vibrating line
fewer glimpses of porpoises, dolphins, flying-fish, and other vivacious
forgetfulness altogether came over me, I had noticed that the seamen at the
striving to wrest it out of your clutch.  Wet the line!  wet the line!  cried
.. <p 282 >
denizens of more stirring waters, than those off the Rio de la Plata, or the
in blood, which bubbled and seethed for furlongs behind in their wake.  The
monster like brooks down a hill.  His tormented body rolled not in brine but
reflection into every face, so that they all glowed to each other like red
slanting sun playing upon this crimson pond in the sea, sent back its
welcome cry was heard -- Stand up, Tashtego! --give it to him!  The harpoon was
with might and main clinging to his seat, to prevent being tossed to the
went hot and hissing along every one of their wrists.  It was the magical
     a steak, ere I sleep!  You, Daggoo!  overboard you go, and cut me one from
designated by Stubb; comprising the tapering extremity of the body.  About
his small!  Here be it known, that though these wild fishermen do not, as a
lifting a rather reddish morsel to his mouth, don't you think this steak is
his head, so as to bring his best ear into play.  Cook, said Stubb, rapidly
bowed his arched back still further over, at the same time sideways inclining
.. <p 293 >
must keep quiet.  Blast me, if I can hear my own voice.  Away, cook, and
man that is tossed to them; and though, while the valiant butchers over the
rather overdone?  You've been beating this steak too much, cook; it's too
command, came to a dead stop on the opposite side of Stubb's sideboard;
knee-pans, which he did not keep well scoured like his other pans; this old
screw.  Though amid all the smoking horror and diabolism of a sea-fight,
leaning far over the side in a mumbling voice began addressing the sharks,
sideboard; now then, go and preach to 'em!  Sullenly taking the offered
galley, for, like many old blacks, there was something the matter with his
dish, as if stabbing with his lance; cook, you cook! --sail this way, cook!
conciliating the devil.  But, as yet, Stubb heeded not the mumblings of the
decision about the propriety of devil-worship, and the expediency of
dam racket!  Cook, here interposed Stubb, accompanying the word with a
sudden slap on the shoulder, -- Cook!  why, damn your eyes, you mustn't swear
tender.  Don't I always say that to be good, a whale-steak must be tough?
occasion when you will find them in such countless numbers, and in gayer or
buried; and though one or two other like instances might be set down,
parties; and though sharks also are the invariable outriders of all slave
quarrelsomely carving away under the table at the dead meat; and though, were
that way when you're preaching.  That's no way to convert sinners, Cook!
deck-table are
while Stubb, softly crawling behind, overheard all that was said.
deliver my message.  Here, take this lantern, snatching one from his
his congregation, with the other hand he solemnly flourished his tongs, and
best be likened to the hollow made by a carpenter in countersinking for a
and turning over on their backs as they scooped out huge globular pieces of
woraciousness, fellow-critters, I don't blame ye so much for; dat is natur,
a few inches of the sleepers' hearts.  Peering over the side you could just
     thousands on thousands of sharks, swarming round the dead leviathan,
all angel is not'ing more dan de shark well goberned.  Now, look here,
bred'ren, just try wonst to be cibil, a helping yourselbs from dat whale.

shark dood right as toder to dat whale?  And, by Gor, none on you has de right
to dat whale; dat whale belong to some one else.  I know some o' you has
as if that capstan were a sideboard.  Nor was Stubb the only banqueter on
bite off de blubber for de small fry ob sharks, dat can't get into de scrouge
midnight that steak was cut and cooked; and lighted by two lanterns of sperm
to help demselves.  Well done, old Fleece!  cried Stubb, that's
you is all sharks, and by natur wery woracious, yet I
zay to you, fellow-critters, dat dat woraciousness --'top dat dam slappin' ob

     consideration before mentioned: i.  e.  that a man should eat a newly murdered
and if he had been put on his trial by oxen, he certainly would have been;
diminished, by vigorously stirring them up with sharp whaling-spades, a
procedure notwithstanding, which, in some instances, only seems to tickle
so largely abound, their wondrous voracity can be at times considerably
sights, to have looked over her side that night, would have almost thought
the whole round sea was one huge cheese, and those sharks the maggots in it.
morning.  In most other parts of the ocean, however, where these fish do not
hours, say, on a stretch, little more than the skeleton would be visible by
Pacific, this plan will not answer at all; because such incalculable hosts
suspending the cutting stages over the side, and lowering three lanterns, so
deck to see that all goes well.  But sometimes, especially upon the Line in the
about it.  Therefore, the common usage is to take in all sail; lash the helm
laborious one; is not very soon completed; and requires all hands to set
them into still greater activity.  But it was not thus in the present case
pate-de-foie-gras.  But Stubb, he eats the whale by its own light, does he?
     When in the Southern Fishery, a

brought about new revelations of the incredible ferocity of the foe.  They
coming famine; it will be more tolerable for that provident Fejee, I say, in
flexible bows, bent round, and bit their own; till those entrails seemed
swallowed over and over again by the same mouth, to be oppositely voided by
the gaping wound.  Nor was this all.  It was unsafe to meddle with the corpses
.. < chapter lxvi 2  THE SHARK MASSACRE >
.. <p 300 >
individual life had departed.  Killed and hoisted on deck for the sake of his
skin, one of these sharks almost took poor Queequeg's hand off, when he
tried to shut down the dead lid of his murderous jaw.  Queequeg no care what
Secretary of the Society for the Suppression of Cruelty to Ganders formally
fat goose?  With a feather of the same fowl.  And with what quill did the
one dam Ingin.
and that is adding insult to injury, is it?  Look at your knife-handle,
murdering of the sharks, by striking the keen steel deep into their skulls,
the bigness of a man's spread hand; and in general shape, corresponds to
the garden implement after which it is named; only its sides are perfectly
two mariners, darting their long whaling-spades, kept up an incessant
for the Fejee that salted down a lean missionary in his cellar against a
a Saturday night and see the crowds of live bipeds staring up at the long rows
thirty feet long, is inserted for a handle.
and he certainly deserved it if any murderer does.  Go to the meat-market of
viciously snapped, not only at each other's disembowelments, but like
with the Pequod's sharks; though, to be sure, any man unaccustomed to such
England rocks on the sea-coast, which Agassiz imagines to bear the marks of
also seems to me that such scratches in the whale are probably made by hostile
contact with other whales; for I have most remarked them in the large,
virtue of interior spaciousness.  Oh, man!  admire and model thyself after the
     strong individual vitality, and the rare virtue of thick walls, and the rare

experiment, that the blood of a Polar whale is warmer than that of a Borneo
hopeless to teach these fine things!  Of erections, how few are domed like St.
glued in amber.  But more surprising is it to know, as has been proved by
perpendicularly frozen into the hearts of fields of ice, as a fly is found
found at home, immersed to his lips for life in those Arctic waters!  where,
lungs and warm blood.  Freeze his blood, and he dies.  How wonderful is it
in winter would bask before an inn fire; whereas, like man, the whale has
creatures, that warm themselves under the lee of an iceberg, as a traveller
has not perceptibly lost anything in bulk.  it is still colossal.  slowly it
of the skin or blubber of the whale.  It has already been said, that it is
What would become of a Greenland whale, say, in those shuddering, icy seas of
indeed wrapt up in his blubber as in a real blanket or counterpane; or, still
.. <p 306 >
the beheaded whale flashes like a marble sepulchre; though changed in hue, it
vast white headless phantom floats further and further from the ship, and
whale!  Do thou, too, remain warm among ice.  Do thou, too, live in this world
without being of it.  Be cool at the equator; keep thy blood fluid at the
     That lively cry upon this deadly calm might almost convert a better man.
--Where away?  Three points on the starboard bow, sir, and bringing down her
be made.  Here be it said, that like the vessels of military marines, the
breeze to us!  Better and better, man.  Would now St.  Paul would come along
could not hope to reach her.  So the signal was set to see what response would
ships of the American Whale Fleet have each a private signal; all which
mast-heads proved her a whale-ship.  but as she was so far to windward, and
blew on; but the breeze came faster than the ship, and soon the Pequod began
responded to by the stranger's setting her own; which proved the ship to be
shooting by, apparently making a passage to some other ground, the Pequod
side-ladder was being rigged by Starbuck's order to accommodate the visiting
signals being collected in a book with the names of the respective vessels
     Hand in hand, ship and breeze
Jeroboam had a malignant epidemic on board, and that Mayhew, her captain,
smallest atom stirs or lives on matter, but has its cunning duplicate in
the Jeroboam of Nantucket.  Squaring her yards, she bore down, ranged abeam

.. < chapter lxxi 2  THE JEROBOAM'S STORY >
adhering to the timid quarantine of the land, he peremptorily refused to come
communication.  Preserving an interval of some few yards between itself and
into direct contact with the Pequod.  But this did by no means prevent all
the
.. <p 311 >
parallel to the Pequod, as she heavily forged through the sea (for by this
time it blew very fresh), with her main-topsail aback; though, indeed, at
times by the sudden onset of a large rolling wave, the boat would be pushed
token of that proceeding being entirely unnecessary.  It turned out that the
was fearful of infecting the Pequod's company.  For, though himself and boat's
under the Pequod's lee, and lowered a boat; it soon drew nigh; but, as the
without still another interruption of a very different sort.  Pulling an oar

     Meantime, the hoisted sperm whale's head jogged about very violently, and
Greedily sucking in this intelligence, Gabriel solemnly warned the captain
Shaker God incarnated; the Shakers receiving the Bible.  But when, some year
against attacking the white whale, in case the monster should be seen; in his
by one of those occasional caprices of the seas were tumbling, not heaving it.
gibbering insanity, pronouncing the White Whale to be no less a being than the
or two afterwards, Moby Dick was fairly sighted from the mast-heads, Macey,
not long left home, when upon speaking a whale-ship, her people were
Mayhew began a dark story concerning Moby Dick; not, however, without
much weary pulling, and many perilous, unsuccessful onsets, he at last
succeeded in getting one iron fast.  Meantime, Gabriel, ascending to the
the chief mate, burned with ardor to encounter him; and the captain himself
reliably apprised of the existence of Moby Dick, and the havoc he had made.
     Captain, I have just bethought me of my letter-bag; there is a letter for
chance of encountering them in the four oceans.  Thus, most letters never
delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed, depends upon the mere
or three years or more.  Soon Starbuck returned with a letter in his hand.  It
reach their mark; and many are only received after attaining an age of two
was sorely tumbled, damp, and covered with a dull, spotted, green mould, in
