.. <p 3 >
Niagara but a cataract of sand, would you travel your thousand miles to see
is the one charm wanting? --Water --there is not a drop of water there!  Were
of that tempestuous wind called Euroclydon, says an old writer --of whose
one in-doors, with his feet on the hob quietly toasting for bed.  In judging
tossed craft.  Euroclydon, nevertheless, is a mighty pleasant zephyr to any
the outside, or whether thou observest it from that sashless window, where
leaning over sadly.  It stood on a sharp bleak corner, where that tempestuous
queer sort of place --a gable-ended old house, one side palsied as it were, and
.. <p 9 >
crannies though, and thrust in a little lint here and there.  But it's too
particular connexion, thought I. But it is a common name in Nantucket,
speak more respectfully, not to say reverentially, of a broiled fowl than I
saw a swinging sign over the door with a white painting upon it, faintly
the invisible police officer of the Fates, who has the constant surveillance
from the docks, and heard a forlorn creaking in the air; and looking up,
blackness of darkness, and the weeping and wailing and teeth-gnashing
tempestuous Euroclydon.  Euroclydon!  says old Dives, in his red silken
there, chattering his teeth against the curbstone for his pillow, and shaking
Parliament sitting in Tophet.  A hundred black faces turned round in their
Crossed Harpoons, and The Sword-Fish? --this, then, must needs be the sign
of making my own summer with my own coals.  But what thinks Lazarus?  Can he
warm his blue hands by holding them up to the grand northern lights?  Would
choked me, are these ashes from that destroyed city, Gomorrah?  But The
stood invitingly open.  It had a careless look, as if it were meant for the
came to a smoky light proceeding from a low, wide building, the door of which
blackness, not houses, on either hand, and here and there a candle, like a
that Lazarus should lie stranded there on the curbstone before the door of
cheapest, if not the cheeriest inns.  Such dreary streets!  Blocks of
the Moluccas.  Yet Dives himself, he too lives like a Czar in an ice palace
made of frozen sighs, and being a president of a temperance society, he only
Ishmael, said I at last; don't you hear?  get away from before the door;
.. <p 8 >
ice from our frosted feet, and see what sort of a place this Spouter may
be.
from before the house, for everywhere else the congealed frost lay ten inches
the sign of The Crossed Harpoons --but it looked too expensive and jolly
don't be too particular.  With halting steps I paced the streets, and passed
sounded my pocket, and only brought up a few pieces of silver, --So,
whether thou lookest out at it from a glass window where the frost is all on
wainscots, reminding one of the bulwarks of some condemned old craft.  On one
and cheerless.  I knew no one in the place.  With anxious grapnels I had
at the whales, in order to discover when they were nigh enough to risk a
inquiry of the neighbors, that you could any way arrive at an understanding
ships, barques, brigs, schooners, and what not.  And as for going as cook, --
story of Narcissus, who because he could not grasp the tormenting, mild image
forth, partly laden with imported cobble-stones --so goes the story --to throw
--the Tyre of this Carthage; --the place where the first dead American whale
paying me for my trouble, whereas they never pay passengers a single penny
that I ever heard of.  On the contrary, passengers themselves must pay.  And
old Nantucket is now much behind her, yet Nantucket was her great original
boisterous something about everything connected with that famous old island,
made up to sail in no other than a Nantucket craft, because there was a fine,
.. <p 7 >
most young candidates for the pains and penalties of whaling
nameless yeast.  A boggy, soggy, squitchy picture truly, enough to drive a
nervous man distracted.  Yet was there a sort of indefinite, half-attained,
throwing open the little window towards the back of the entry, you at last
Bedford.  It was on a Saturday night in December.  Much was I disappointed
     I stuffed a shirt or two into my old
unimaginable sublimity about it that fairly froze you to it, till you
have the satisfaction of knowing that it is all right; that everybody else
winter scene. --It's the breaking-up of the ice-bound stream of Time.  But at
respectable toils, trials, and tribulations of every kind whatsoever.  It is

.. < chapter ii 24  THE CARPET-BAG >
leviathan himself?  In fact, the artist's design seemed this: a final theory
of my own, partly based upon the aggregated opinions of many aged persons
with whom I conversed upon the subject.  The picture represents a Cape-Horner
.. <p 6 >
there floated into my inmost soul, endless processions of the whale, and, mid
clean over the craft, is in the enormous act of impaling himself upon the
three mast-heads.  The opposite wall of this entry was hung all over with a
heathenish array of monstrous clubs and spears.  Some were thickly set with
open, and in the wild conceits that swayed me to my purpose, two and two
of a sea-captain orders me to get a broom and sweep down the decks?  What does
the segment made in the new-mown grass by a long-armed mower.  You shuddered
love to sail forbidden seas, and land on barbarous coasts.  Not ignoring what
but as for me, I am tormented with an everlasting itch for things remote.  I
these were rusty old whaling lances and harpoons all broken and deformed.
Then the wild and distant seas where he rolled his island bulk; the
chief among these motives was the overwhelming idea of the great whale
sunset.  And that harpoon--so like a corkscrew now--was flung in Javan seas,
a choice resulting from my own unbiased freewill and discriminating judgment.
.. <p 6 >
circumstances, I think I can see a little into the springs and motives which
nigh the tail, and, like a restless needle sojourning in the body of a man,
travelled full forty feet, and at last was found imbedded in the hump.
cannot tell why this was exactly; yet, now that I recall all the
what in old times must have been a great central chimney with fire-places all
round --you enter the public room.  A still duskier place is this, with such
and easy parts in genteel comedies, and jolly parts in farces --though I
howling night, when this corner-anchored old ark rocked so furiously.  On one
particularly if you come of an old established family in the land, the van
side stood a long, low, shelf-like table covered with cracked glass cases,
Affghanistan.  Though I cannot tell why it was exactly that those stage
United States.  Whaling Voyage by one Ishmael.  Bloody Battle in
bar-- a rude attempt at a right whale's head.  Be that how it may, there
stands the vast arched bone of the whale's jaw, so wide, a coach might
extensive performances.  I take it that this part of the bill must have run
long time ago.  It came in as a sort of brief interlude and solo between more
can better answer than any one else.  And, doubtless, my going on this whaling
deliriums and death.  Abominable are the tumblers into which he pours his
of me, and secretly dogs me, and influences me in some unaccountable way --he
poison.  Though true cylinders without --within, the villanous green goggling
late to make any improvements now.  The universe is finished; the copestone
not so.  In much the same way do the commonalty lead their leaders in many
a sailor, because of the wholesome exercise and pure air of the forecastle
cheerfully we consign ourselves to perdition!  Finally, I always go to sea as
for a shilling.  Upon entering the place I found a number of young seamen
gathered about a table, examining by a dim light divers specimens of
skrimshander.  I sought the landlord, and telling him I desired to be
ills, and that on no account can a monied man enter heaven.  Ah!  how
considering that we so earnestly believe money to be the root of all earthly
once broiled, judiciously buttered, and judgmatically salted and peppered,
.. <p 5 >
I told him that I never liked to sleep two in a bed; that if I should ever do
officer on ship-board --yet, somehow, I never fancied broiling fowls; --though
orchard
act of paying is perhaps the most uncomfortable infliction that the two
only by diligent study and a series of systematic visits to it, and careful
on so bitter a night, I would put up with the half of any decent man's
quite as much as I can do to take care of myself, without taking care of
content.  Again, I always go to sea as a sailor, because they make a point of
is one way or other served in much the same way -- either in a physical or
further adorning it with his jack-knife, stooping over and diligently working
last all these fancies yielded to that one portentous something in the
because I promptly and respectfully obey that old hunks in that particular
Testament?  Do you think the archangel Gabriel thinks anything the less of me,
but two dismal tallow candles, each in a winding sheet.  We were fain to
button up our monkey jackets, and hold to our lips cups of scalding tea with
holy?  Why did the Greeks give it a separate deity, and own brother of Jove?
human hair; and one was sickle-shaped, with a vast handle sweeping round like
our half frozen fingers.  But the fare was of the most substantial kind --not
and bear it.  But even this wears off in time.  What of it, if some old hunks
and requires a strong decoction of Seneca and the Stoics to enable you to grin
harpooneer, is it?  Oh, no, said he, looking a sort of diabolically funny,
must needs have a purse, and a purse is but a rag unless you have something
nightmare to a dead sartainty.  Landlord, I whispered, that aint the
Rensselaers, or Randolphs, or Hardicanutes.  And more than all, if just
says I. Where is that harpooneer?  Is he here?  He'll be here afore long,
so, it would depend upon who the harpooneer might be, and that if he (the
inferred that I ever go to sea as a passenger.  For to go as a passenger you
invest his money in a pedestrian trip to Rockaway Beach?  Why is almost every
jump from spar to spar, like a grasshopper in a May meadow.  And at first,
eyes, and begin to be over conscious of my lungs, I do not mean to have it
image, we ourselves see in all rivers and oceans.  It is the image of the
.. <p 4 >
landlord cried, That's the Grampus's crew.  I seed her reported in the
looker on.  Presently a rioting noise was heard without.  Starting up, the
now we'll have the latest news from the Feegees.  A tramping of sea boots was
offing this morning; a three years' voyage, and a full ship.  Hurrah, boys;
objections to sharing a harpooneer's blanket, have ye?  I s'pose you are goin'
he saw in the fountain, plunged into it and was drowned.  But that same
of its purpose.  such unaccountable masses of shades and shadows, that at
much and earnest contemplation, and oft repeated ponderings, and especially by
combat of the four primal elements. --It's a blasted heath. --It's a Hyperborean
Commodore, or a Captain, or a Cook.  I abandon the glory and distinction of
mouth --the bar --when the wrinkled little old Jonah, there officiating, soon
poured them out brimmers all round.  One complained of a bad cold in his head,
the harpooneer is a dark complexioned chap.  He never eats dumplings, he
only meat and potatoes, but dumplings; good heavens!  dumplings for supper!
nights --do not enjoy themselves much, as a general thing; --no, I never go as a
upon which Jonah mixed him a pitch-like potion of gin and molasses, which
was the answer.  I could not help it, but I began to feel suspicious of this
of silver, deliberate whether to buy him a coat, which he sadly needed, or
spoil the hilarity of his shipmates by his own sober face, yet upon the whole
works I possess the only copy extant -- it maketh a marvellous difference,
it?  Why did the poor poet of Tennessee, upon suddenly receiving two handfuls
Surely all this is not without meaning.  And still deeper the meaning of that
concerned), I will here venture upon a little description of him.  He stood
full six feet in height, with noble shoulders, and a chest like a
shipmate (though but a sleeping-partner one, so far as this narrative is
their huge bake-houses the pyramids.  No, when I go to sea, I go as a simple
this sort of thing is unpleasant enough.  It touches one's sense of honor,
would almost fancy you trod some old craft's cockpits, especially of such a
wrapper --(he had a redder one afterwards) pooh, pooh!  What a fine frosty
you found yourself in a wide, low, straggling entry with old-fashioned
you through. --It's the Black Sea in a midnight gale. --It's the unnatural
Bulkington!  Bulkington!  where's Bulkington?  and darted out of the house in
a little plan that had occurred to me just previous to the entrance of the
light in one hand, and that identical New Zealand head in the other, the
perfectly still, and resolved not to say a word till spoken to.  Holding a
seamen.  No man prefers to sleep two in a bed.  In fact, you would a good deal
stranger entered the room, and without looking towards the bed, placed his
saw a glimmer of light come into the room from under the door.  Lord save me,
but I rolled about a good deal, and could not sleep for a long time.  At
mattress was stuffed with corn-cobs or broken crockery, there is no telling,
thinks I, that must be the harpooneer, the infernal head-peddler.  But I lay
but jumped out of my pantaloons and boots, and then blowing out the light
coming home at all that night, it being so very late, I made no more ado,
from the surgeon.  But at that moment he chanced to turn his face so towards
the light, that I plainly saw they could not be sticking-plasters at all,
as I was, and remembering what the landlord said about the harpooneer's not
those black squares on his cheeks.  they were stains of some sort or other.  At
first I knew not what to make of this; but soon an inkling of the truth
middle of the room thinking.  I then took off my coat, and thought a little
the bed-side, I got up and took off my monkey jacket, and then stood in the
mysterious harpooneer had been wearing it of a rainy day.  I went up in it to
.. <p 20 >
outside; a man can be honest in any sort of skin.  But then, what to make of
his unearthly complexion, that part of it, I mean, lying round about, and
guise?  I put it on, to try it, and it weighed me down like a hamper, being
nothing but a good coat of tropical tanning; but I never heard of a hot sun's
tanning a white man into a purplish yellow one.  However, I had never been
a door mat, and parade the streets of any Christian town in that sort of
or slit in the middle of this mat, as you see the same in South American
like lightning, this harpooneer never noticed me at all.  But, after some
like the stained porcupine quills round an Indian moccasin.  There was a hole
pulled out a sort of tomahawk, and a seal-skin wallet with the hair on.
light, and felt it, and smelt it, and tried every way possible to arrive at
bed.  But what is this on the chest?  I took it up, and held it close to the
seaman's bag, containing the harpooneer's wardrobe, no doubt in lieu of a
fresh surprise.  There was no hair on his head --none to speak of at least --
hammock lashed up, and thrown upon the floor in one corner; also a large
head now looked for all the world like a mildewed skull.  Had not the stranger
stood between me and the door, I would have bolted out of it quicker than ever
rude shelf, the four walls, and a papered fireboard representing a man
was of a dark purplish, yellow color, here and there stuck over with large,
centre table, could see no other furniture belonging to the place, but a
over the bed.  Though none of the most elegant, it yet stood the scrutiny
confounded about the stranger, i confess i was now as much afraid of him as if
chest that did double duty as a wash-stand and centre table; there, make
night.  In fact, I was so afraid of him that I was not game enough just then
to address him, and demand a satisfactory answer concerning what seemed
abreast.  There, said the landlord, placing the candle on a crazy old sea
considered the matter a moment, and then up stairs we went, and I was
he exclaimed I vum it's Sunday --you won't see that harpooneer to-night; he's
lead the way.  But I stood irresolute; when looking at a clock in the corner,
the same squares as his face; his back, too, was all over the same dark
squares; he seemed to have been in a Thirty Years' War, and just escaped from
.. <p 19 >
After
was now quite plain that he must be some abominable savage or other shipped
aboard of a whaleman in the South Seas, and so landed in this Christian
and somehow, Sam got pitched on the floor, and came near breaking his arm.
of his own brothers.  He might take a fancy to mine --heavens!  look at that
tomahawk!  But there was no time for shuddering, for now the savage went about
something that completely fascinated my attention, and convinced me that he
Johnny in the foot of it.  But I got a dreaming and sprawling about one night,
bed that.  Why, afore we give it up, Sal used to put our Sam and little
pockets, and produced at length a curious little deformed image with a hunch
on its back, and exactly the color of a three days' old Congo baby.
There's plenty room for two to kick about in that bed; it's an almighty big
a nice bed: Sal and me slept in that ere bed the night we were spliced.
was not at all limber, and that it glistened a good deal like polished ebony,
     But come, it's getting dreadful late, you had better be turning flukes --it's

the papered fire-board, sets up this little hunchbacked image, like a tenpin,
between the andirons.  the chimney jambs and all the bricks inside were very
business as selling the heads of dead idolators?  Depend upon it, landlord,
or chapel for his Congo idol.  I now screwed my eyes hard towards the half
hidden image, feeling but ill at ease meantime --to see what was next to
Saturday night clean into the holy Sabbath, engaged in such a cannibal
pocket, and places them carefully before the idol; then laying a bit of ship
biscuit on top and applying the flame from the lamp, he kindled the shavings
like a string of inions.  This account cleared up the otherwise unaccountable
fire, and still hastier
goin' out of the door with four heads strung on a string, for all the airth
window, but it was the second floor back.  I am no coward, but what to make
he at last succeeded in drawing out the biscuit; then blowing off the heat
and that one he's trying to sell to-night, cause to-morrow's Sunday, and it
little devil did not seem to fancy such dry sort of fare at all; he never
moved his lips.  All these strange antics were accompanied by still stranger
Zealand heads (great curios, you know), and he's sold all on 'em but one,
sir, by trying to induce me to do so knowingly, would thereby render yourself
chance of spending a sufferable night unless in some other person's bed, I
the idol up very unceremoniously, and bagged it again in his grego pocket
no idea of sleeping with a madman; and you, sir, you I mean, landlord, you,
in all respects safe to spend the night with him.  And in the first place,
speak out and tell me who and what this harpooneer is, and whether I shall be
into bed with me, I thought it was high time, now or never, before the light
was put out, to break the spell into which I had so long been bound.  But the
.. <p 18 >
harpooneer.  And about this harpooneer, whom I have not yet seen, you
holding it to the light, with his mouth at the handle, he puffed out great
can only give me half a one; that the other half belongs to a certain
this wild cannibal, tomahawk between his teeth, sprang into bed with me.  I
sang out, I could not help it now; and giving a sudden grunt of astonishment
-- landlord, stop whittling.  You and I must understand one another, and
     Landlord, said I, going up to him as cool as Mt.  Hecla in a snow storm,
be, to keep quiet, and let me get up and light the lamp again.  But his
guttural responses satisfied me at once that he but ill comprehended my
meaning.  Who-e debel you? --he at last said -- you no speak-e, dam-me, I
kill-e.  And so saying the lighted tomahawk began flourishing about me in the

I kill-e!  again growled the cannibal, while his horrid flourishings of the
now flying into a passion again at this unaccountable farrago of the
to settle down in.  But I soon found that there came such a draught of cold
harpooneer hears you a slanderin' his head.  I'll break it for him, said I,
     With heads to be sure; ain't there too many heads in the world?  I tell

     Don't be afraid now, said he, grinning again.  Queequeg here wouldn't harm
a hair of your head.  Stop your grinning, shouted I, and why didn't you
about that harpooneer. -- I shan't sleep with him.  I'll try the bench here.
bench in the room was about four inches higher than the planed one --so there
tomahawk scattered the hot tobacco ashes about me till I thought
around this town?  That's precisely it, said the landlord, and I told him
     Do you pretend to say, landlord, that this harpooneer is actually engaged
could be mended with a chair.  But it was a foot too narrow, and the other
to me with his tomahawk, and throwing the clothes to one side.  He really did
this in not only a civil but a really kind and charitable way.  I stood

bamboozingly story is this you are telling me?  getting into a towering rage.
thought i to myself --the man's a human being just as I am: he has just as
much reason to fear me, as I have to be afraid of him.  Better sleep with a
may be, he can't sell his head.  Can't sell his head? --What sort of a
stash his tomahawk there, or pipe, or whatever you call it; tell him to
stop smoking, in short, and I will turn in with him.  But I don't fancy having
--yes, he's the bird what catches the worm. --But to-night he went out a
answered, generally he's an early bird -- airley to bed and airley to rise
me to get into bed --rolling over to one side as much as to say --I wont touch a
leg of ye.  Good night, landlord, said I, you may go.  I turned in, and
never slept better in my life.
a chap is he --does he always keep such late hours?  It was now hard upon
But though the other boarders kept coming in by ones, twos, and threes, and
.. <p 17 >
I found Queequeg's arm thrown over me in the most loving and affectionate
against this unknown harpooneer.  Thinks I, I'll wait awhile; he must be
got a carpenter's plane there in the bar --wait, I say, and I'll make ye snug
manner.  You had almost thought I had been his wife.  The counterpane was of
began to think that after all I might be cherishing unwarrantable prejudices
about in the most unnatural manner.  At last extinguishing the fire, he took
his keeping his arm at sea unmethodically in sun and shade, his shirt
patchwork, full of odd little parti-colored squares and triangles; and this
looked for all the world like a strip of that same patchwork quilt.  Indeed,
dismissed it.  For who could tell but what the next morning, so soon as I
him --bolt his door inside, and jump into his bed, not to be wakened by the
sense of weight and pressure that I could tell that Queequeg was hugging me.
devil fetch that harpooneer, thought I, but stop, couldn't I steal a march on
air over me from under the sill of the window, that this plan would never do
sleeves irregularly rolled up at various times --this same arm of his, I say,
this.  I had been cutting up some caper or other --I think it was trying to
just as you please; i'm sorry i cant spare ye a tablecloth for a mattress,
clear space against the wall, leaving a little interval between, for my back
sending me to bed supperless, --my mother dragged me by the legs out of the
tell me that that infernal harpooneer was a cannibal?  I thought ye know'd
bedwards.  Suppose now, he should tumble in upon me at midnight --how could I
another grin, and throwing them into the great stove in the middle of the
little room in the third floor, undressed myself as slowly as possible so as
to kill time, and with a bitter sigh got between the sheets.  I lay there
could make eider down of a pine plank.  So gathering up the shavings with
first dusting the bench, vigorously set to planing away at my bed, the while
enough.  So saying he procured the plane; and with his old silk handkerchief
ashore.  To be sure they all sleep together in one apartment, but you have
streets, and the sound of gay voices all over the house.  I felt worse and
the sun shining in at the window, and a great rattling of coaches in the
was a reality or a dream, I never could entirely settle.  The circumstance was
.. <p 16 >
and it's a plaguy rough board here --feeling of the knots and notches.  But
misbehavior; anything indeed but condemning me to lie abed such an
unendurable length of time.  But she was the best and most conscientious of
stepmothers, and back I had to go to my room.  For several hours I lay there
a harpooneer, then your objections indefinitely multiply.  Nor was there any
it; --didn't I tell ye, he was peddlin' heads around town? --but turn flukes
troubled nightmare of a doze; and slowly waking from it --half steeped in
away at his pipe and sitting up in bed.  You gettee in, he added, motioning
harpooneer, his linen or woollen, as the case might be, would not be of the
to be seen, and nothing was to be heard; but a supernatural hand seemed
placed in mine.  My arm hung over the counterpane, and the nameless,
unimaginable, silent form or phantom, to which the hand belonged, seemed
withdrawals of his fingers (whereby he seemed to be scorching them badly),
earthly reason why I as a sailor should sleep two in a bed, more than anybody
spell would be broken.  I knew not how this consciousness at last glided away
working away at the knotted cords of the large bag I before spoke of as being
he couldn't sell it here, the market's overstocked.  With what?  shouted I.
an unknown stranger, in a strange inn, in a strange town, and that stranger
it.  Now, take away the awful fear, and my sensations at feeling the
supernatural hand in mine were very similar, in their strangeness, to those
to explain the mystery.  Nay, to this very hour, I often puzzle myself with
which I experienced on waking up and seeing Queequeg's pagan arm thrown round
worse --at last I got up, dressed, and softly going down in my stockinged
yet ever thinking that if I could but stir it one single inch, the horrid

     Queequeg! --but his only answer was a snore.  I then rolled over, my neck
.. <p 33 >
Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian oceans.  One and all, they were harpooned and
answered.  Yes; all these brave houses and flowery gardens came from the
cheek like
dragged up hither from the bottom of the sea.  Can Herr Alexander perform a
feat like that?  In New Bedford, fathers, they say, give whales for dowers to
feeling as if it were in a horse-collar; and suddenly felt a slight scratch.
have reservoirs of oil in every house, and every night recklessly burn their
lengths in spermaceti candles.  In summer time, the town is sweet to see;
and gardens more opulent, than in New Bedford.  Whence came they?  how planted
Canaan; a land, also, of corn and wine.  The streets do not run with milk;
the passer-by their tapering upright cones of congregated blossoms.  So
omnipotent is art; which in many a district of New Bedford has superinduced
in, in all New England.  It is a land of oil, true enough; but not like
one, they look so bony.  The town itself is perhaps the dearest place to live
red roses.  But roses only bloom in summer; whereas the fine carnation of
their cheeks is perennial as sunlight in the seventh heavens.  Elsewhere match
that bloom of theirs, ye cannot, save in Salem, where they tell me the young
coast of Labrador.  As it is, parts of her back country are enough to frighten
Still New Bedford is a queer place.  Had it not been for us whalemen, that
only harpooneers, cannibals, and bumpkins to show her visitors.  Not at all.
all, down the throat of the tempest.  But think not that this famous town has
bespeaking his sea-outfit, he orders bell-buttons to his waistcoats; straps
should see the comical things he does upon reaching the seaport.  In
swallow-tailed coat, girdled with a sailor-belt and sheath-knife.  Here comes
Look there!  that chap strutting round the corner.  He wears a beaver hat and
There weekly arrive in this town scores of green Vermonters and New Hampshire
out upon this special errand.  The sky had changed from clear,
.. <p 32 >
sunny cold, to driving sleet and mist.  Wrapping myself in my shaggy jacket
of the cloth called bearskin, I fought my way against the stubborn storm.
Brighggians, and, besides the wild specimens of the whaling-craft which
their daughters, and portion off their nieces with a few porpoises a-piece.
shrieks of the storm.  Each silent worshipper seemed purposely sitting apart
besides the Feegeeans, Tongatabooarrs, Erromanggoans, Pannangians, and
cannibals stand chatting at street corners; savages outright; many of whom
sat steadfastly eyeing several marble tablets, with black borders, masoned
into the wall on either side the pulpit.  Three of them ran something like the
last-mentioned haunts you see only sailors; but in New Bedford, actual
and at Bombay, in the Apollo Green, live Yankees have often scared the
the affrighted ladies.  Regent street is not unknown to Lascars and Malays;
Broadway and Chestnut streets, Mediterranean mariners will sometimes jostle
     If I had been astonished at first catching a
Nathan Coleman, Walter Canny, Seth Macy, and Samuel Gleig, Forming one of the
boats' crews of the Ship Eliza, Who were towed out of sight by a Whale, On
the Off-shore Ground in the Pacific, December 31st,

.. < chapter vi 11  THE STREET >
cutlery with a vengeance.  Afterwards I wondered the less at this operation
Sacred To the Memory of The late Captain Ezekiel Hardy, Who in the bows of
his boat was killed by a Sperm Whale on the coast of Japan, August 3d,
This Tablet Is erected to his Memory by His Widow.  Shaking off the sleet
.. <p 31 >
turning sideways was surprised to see Queequeg near me.  Affected by the
solemnity of the scene, there was a wondering gaze of incredulous curiosity
sallied out for a stroll.
beefsteaks, done rare.  Enough, that when breakfast was over he withdrew like
therefore, was not reading those frigid inscriptions on the wall.  Whether any
takes the harpoon from the bed corner, slips out the long wooden stock,
eschewed coffee and hot rolls, and applied his undivided attention to
.. <p 31 >
the trappings of some unceasing grief, that I feel sure that here before me
upon this once scraggy scoria of a country?  Go and gaze upon the iron
But that was certainly very coolly done by him, and every
cordially justified his bringing his harpoon into breakfast with him, and
I cannot say much for his breeding.  His greatest admirer could not have
like these.  What bitter blanks in those black-bordered marbles which cover no
ashes!  What despair in those immovable inscriptions!  What deadly voids and
unbidden infidelities in the lines that seem to gnaw upon all Faith, and
refuse resurrections to the beings who have placelessly perished without a
the Green Mountains.  A curious sight; these bashful bears, these timid
each other as though they had never been out of sight of some sheepfold among
great whales on the high seas --entire strangers to them --and duelled them dead
set of sea-dogs, many of whom without the slightest bashfulness had boarded
they tell no tales, though containing more secrets than the Goodwin Sands;
I say, may not be the very best mode of attaining a high social polish.
Africa, which was the sum of poor Mungo's performances -- this kind of travel,
he but embarks for the remotest Indies of this living earth; why the Life
a bitter cold morning.  Seeing, now, that there were no curtains to the window,
unstirring paralysis, and deadly, hopeless trance, yet lies antique Adam who
died sixty round centuries ago; how it is that we still refuse to be
all men, they possessed the least assurance in the parlor.  But perhaps the
Ledyard, the great New England traveller, and Mungo Park, the Scotch one; of
are not without their meanings.  But Faith, like a jackal, feeds among the
made to order either --rather pinched and tormented him at the first go off of
rumor of a knocking in a tomb will terrify a whole city.  All these things
needs scarcely to be told, with what feelings, on the eve of a Nantucket
tombs, and even from these dead doubts she gathers her most vital hope.  It
breakfast.  They say that men who have seen the world, thereby become quite at
     Grub, ho!  now cried the landlord, flinging open a door, and in we went to

a stove boat will make me an immortal by brevet.  Yes, there is death in this
business of whaling --a speechlessly quick chaotic bundling of a man into
eyes, and began creaking and limping about the room, as if, not being much
Queequeg?  which, barred with various tints, seemed like the Andes' western
slope, to show forth in one array, contrasting climates, zone by zone.
like oysters observing the sun through the water, and thinking that thick
true substance.  Methinks that in looking at things spiritual, we are too much
.. <p 30 >
Meanwhile, I lay quietly eyeing him, having no serious misgivings now, and
water the thinnest of air.  Methinks my body is but the lees of my better
complexion of a third still lingers a tropic tawn, but slightly bleached
brawny company, with bosky beards; an unshorn, shaggy set, all wearing
coopers, and sea blacksmiths, and harpooneers, and ship keepers; a brown and
now full of the boarders who had been dropping in the night previous, and
of a certain venerable robustness entered; immediately as the storm-pelted
be backward, but let him cheerfully allow himself to spend and be spent in
the congregation, sufficiently attested that this fine old man was the
chaplain.  Yes, it was the famous Father Mapple, so called by the whalemen,
his own proper person, afford stuff for a good joke to anybody, let him not
harpooneer in his youth, but for many years past had dedicated his life to the
ministry.  At the time I now write of, Father Mapple was in the hardy winter
of a healthy old age; that sort of old age which seems merging into a second

.. < chapter v 5  BREAKFAST >
forth even beneath February's snow.  No one having previously heard his
history, could for the first time behold Father Mapple without the utmost
interest, because there were certain engrafted clerical peculiarities about
.. <p 29 >
like a marshal's baton.
carriage, for his tarpaulin hat ran down with melting sleet, and his great
pilot cloth jacket seemed almost to drag him to the floor with the weight of
the water it had absorbed.  However, hat and coat and overshoes were one by
.. <p 29 >
Nevertheless, a man like Queequeg you don't see every day, he and his ways
fashioned pulpits, it was a very lofty one, and since a regular stairs to
such a height would, by its long angle with the floor, seriously contract the
harpooning of his cheeks.  Thinks I, Queequeg, this is using Rogers's best
of the relatives of the seamen whose names appeared there were now among the
face.  I was watching to see where he kept his razor, when lo and behold, he
Christian would have washed his face; but Queequeg, to my amazement,
begged him as well as I could, to accelerate his toilet somewhat, and
polite they are.  I pay this particular compliment to Queequeg, because he
chapel with a handsome pair of red worsted man-ropes for this ladder, which,
and that the street being very narrow, the house opposite commanded a plain
apartment to myself.  Thinks I, Queequeg, under the circumstances, this is a
hands grasping the ornamental knobs of the man-ropes, Father Mapple cast a
look upwards, and then with a truly sailorlike but still reverential
dress first and then leave me to dress afterwards, leaving the whole
accustomed to boots, his pair of damp, wrinkled cowhide ones -- probably not
bent upon narrowly observing so curious a creature.  When, at last, his mind
pulpit, it had not escaped me that however convenient for a ship, these
were assembled those, in whose unhealing hearts the sight of those bleak
At last, he emerged with his hat very much dented and crushed down over his
a tomahawk!  Queequeg! --in the name of goodness, Queequeg, wake!  At length,
over the pulpit, deliberately drag up the ladder step by step, till the whole
was deposited within, leaving him impregnable in his little Quebec.  I
pondered some time without fully comprehending the reason for this.  Father
in the transition state -- neither caterpillar nor butterfly.  He was just
.. <p 28 >
--under the bed; when, from sundry violent
it must symbolize something unseen.  Can it be, then, that by that act of
physical isolation, he signifies his spiritual withdrawal for the time, from
-- he hunted up his boots.  What under the heavens he did it for, I cannot
beaver hat, a very tall one, by the by, and then --still minus his trowsers
self-containing stronghold --a lofty Ehrenbreitstein, with a perennial well
of water within the walls.  But the side ladder was not the only strange
.. <p 35 >
motions; for the time my curiosity getting the better of my breeding.
formed its back was adorned with a large painting representing a gallant ship
being itself nicely headed, and stained with a mahogany color, the whole
Insurance Companies pay death-forfeitures upon immortals; in what eternal,
by dint of much wriggling, and loud and incessant expostulations upon the
flying scud and dark-rolling clouds, there floated a little isle of sunlight,
from which beamed forth an angel's face; and this bright face shed a distinct
plate now inserted into the Victory's plank where Nelson fell.  Ah, noble
ship, the angel seemed to say, beat on, beat on, thou noble ship, and
spot of radiance upon the ship's tossed deck, something like that silver
voyage, I regarded those marble tablets, and by the murky light of that
emblematical harpoons round yonder lofty mansion, and your question will be
consciousness of knowing something about me seemed slowly dawning over him.
panelled front was in the likeness of a ship's bluff bows, and the Holy Bible
rested on the projecting piece of scroll work, fashioned after a ship's
he did not altogether remember how I came to be there, though a dim
     I succeeded in extracting a grunt; and presently, he drew back his arm,
leads the world.  From thence it is the storm of God's quick wrath is first
descried, and the bow must bear the earliest brunt.  From thence it is the

is its prow.
wives and widows.  A muffled silence reigned, only broken at times by the
when they will, for stave my soul, Jove himself cannot.
enough civilized to show off his outlandishness in the strangest possible
Throwing aside the counterpane, there lay the tomahawk sleeping by the
gangway, there!  side away to larboard--larboard gangway to starboard!
unassuming authority ordered the scattered people to condense.  Starboard
wood, so that at every step there was a joint.  At my first glimpse of the
world's a ship on its passage out, and not a voyage complete; and the pulpit
-- The ribs and terrors in the whale, Arched over me a dismal gloom, While
and offered a prayer so deeply devout that he seemed kneeling and praying at
but too well knew the darkness of his deserts, --when wretched Jonah cries out
are pitiful.  For when Jonah, not yet supplicating God for mercy, since he
confession; whereupon the mariners became more and more appalled, but still
passage
other they not unreluctantly lay hold of Jonah.  And now behold Jonah taken up
a Hebrew," he cries --and then --"I fear the Lord the God of Heaven who hath
out from the east, and the sea is still, as Jonah carries down the gale with
him, leaving smooth water behind.  He goes down in the whirling heart of such
answer is forced from Jonah by the hard hand of God that is upon him.  "I am
into the yawning jaws
likewise another answer to a question not put by them, but the unsolicited
high Heaven, they fall to casting lots, to see for whose cause this great
of the fish's belly.  But observe his prayer, and so many white bolts, upon
his prison.  Then Jonah prayed unto learn a weighty lesson.  For sinful as he
him, and at last, fully to test the truth, by referring the whole matter to
her affrighted face from the steep gullies in the blackness overhead, aghast
.. <p 45 >
and finding no speedy vent runs roaring fore and aft, till the mariners come
look towards His holy temple.  And here, shipmates, is true and faithful
repentance; not clamorous for pardon, but grateful for punishment.  And how
pleasing to God was this conduct in Jonah, is shown in the eventual
billow leaping over the bulwarks.  Wave after wave thus leaps into the ship,
meanest thou, O sleeper!  arise!"  Startled from his lethargy by that direful
model for repentance.  Sin not; but if you do, take heed to repent of it like
such tones he commenced reading the following hymn; but changing his manner
slanting storm without seemed to add new power to the preacher, who, when
the far rush of the mighty whale, which even now with open mouth is cleaving
and every plank thunders with trampling feet right over Jonah's head; in all
clattering overboard; when the wind is shrieking, and the men are yelling,
brow, and the light leaping from his eye, made all his simple hearers look
on him with a quick fear that was strange to them.  There now came a lull in
his look, as he silently turned over the leaves of the Book once more; and,
boatswain calls all hands to lighten her; when boxes, bales, and jars are
     That ship, my friends, was the first of recorded smugglers!  the contraband

hundred gold coins for the apprehension of a parricide, and containing a
the frightened master comes to him, and shrieks in his dead ear, "What
Jonah's prodigy of ponderous misery drags him drowning down to sleep.  And
over him, as over the man who bleeds to death, for conscience is the wound,
to them to take him and cast him forth into the sea, for he knew that for
sit, and listen as you listen, while some one of you reads me that other
be passed; and at last amid the whirl of woe he feels, a deep stupor steals
chambers of my soul are all in crookedness!"  Like one who after a night of
the living God.  How being an anointed pilot-prophet, or speaker of true
things, and bidden by the Lord to sound those unwelcome truths in the ears of
my conscience hangs in me!" he groans, "straight upward, so it burns; but the
more appals him.  The floor, the ceiling, and the side, are all awry.  "Oh!  so
.. <p 44 >
berth his tormented eyes roll round the place, and this thus far successful
doom, and with swift slantings tore him along"into the midst of the seas,"
where the eddying depths sucked him ten thousand fathoms down, and"the weeds
were wrapped about his head," and all the watery world of woe bowled over
among which it hung.  The lamp alarms and frightens Jonah; as lying in his
     infallibly straight itself, it but made obvious the false, lying levels
heard the engulphed, repenting prophet when he cried.  Then God spake unto the
fish; and from the shuddering cold and blackness of the sea, the whale came

Lord came a second time; and Jonah, bruised and beaten --his ears, like two
hat-box, valise, or carpet-bag, --no friends accompany him to the wharf with
maintains a permanent obliquity with reference to the room; though, in truth,
     the whale shall hold him in the smallest of his bowel's wards.  Screwed at

and woe to that pilot of the living God who slights it.  Woe to him whom this
sea-shells, still multitudinously murmuring of the ocean --Jonah did the
waters when God has brewed them into a gale!  Woe to him who seeks to please
convicts' cells being never allowed to be locked within.  All dressed and
Captain laughs lowly to himself, and mutters something about the doors of
but the lock contains no key.  Hearing him foolishly fumbling there, the
burglar hastening to cross the seas.  So disordered, self-condemning is his
great Pilot Paul has it, while preaching to others is himself a castaway!
Jonah now.  "I'm travel-weary; I need sleep." "Thou look'st like it," says
them again, showed a deep joy in his eyes, as he cried out with a heavenly
guilty eye, skulking from his God; prowling among the shipping like a vile
     and Jonah is put down for his passage.  "Point out my state-room, Sir," says
.. <p 48 >
enthusiasm, -- but oh!  shipmates!  on the starboard hand of every woe, there is
deep.  Is not the main-truck higher than the kelson is low?  Delight is to
him --a far, far upward, and inward delight --who against the proud gods and

man!  Oh!  most contemptible and worthy of all scorn; with slouched hat and
treacherous world has gone down beneath him.  Delight is to him, who gives
no quarter in the truth, and kills, burns, and destroys all sin though he
     He rings every coin to find a counterfeit.  Not a forger, any way, he mutters;

Lord his God, and is only a patriot to heaven.  Delight is to him, whom all
Mediterranean, the Syrian; and Tarshish or Cadiz more than two thousand miles
from this sure Keel of the Ages.  And eternal delight and deliciousness will
be his, who coming to lay him down, can say with his final breath --O Father!
assented to.  Then the Captain knows that Jonah is a fugitive; but at the
striven to be Thine, more than to be this world's, or mine own.  Yet this is
nothing; I leave eternity to Thee; for what is man that he should live out
the lifetime of his God?  He said no more, but slowly waving a benediction,
     and without a passport; whereas Virtue, if a pauper, is stopped at all

.. < chapter X 24  A BOSOM FRIEND >
.. <p 48 >
penniless.  In this world, shipmates, sin that pays its way can travel freely,
discernment detects crime in any, but whose cupidity exposes it only in the
gale howls louder; then, with one hand raised invokingly to God, with the
the benediction some time.  He was sitting on a bench before the fire, with
his feet on the stove hearth, and in one hand was holding close up to his
away the Captain from that scent.  "I'll sail with ye," --he says, --"the
jack-knife gently whittling away at its nose, meanwhile humming to himself in
his heathenish way.  But being now interrupted, he put up the image; and
pretty
but no sooner does he hear that hollow voice, than he darts a scrutinizing
soon, going to the table, took up a large book there, and placing it on his
lap began counting the pages with deliberate regularity; at every fiftieth
     For the instant he almost turns to flee again.  But he rallies.  "I seek a

then begin again at the next fifty; seeming to commence at number one each
time, as though he could not count more than fifty, and it was only by such
advertised, they let him pass, and he descends into the cabin.  "Who's
confess himself suspected; but that itself is strong suspicion.  So he makes
though he was, and hideously marred about the face --at least to my taste --
into countries where God does not reign, but only the Captains of this earth.
boldness to his face, only looks so much the more a coward.  He will not
saw the traces of a simple honest heart; and in his large, deep eyes, fiery
description of his person.  He reads, and looks from Jonah to the bill;
humility, he spake these words: Shipmates, God has laid but one hand upon
against the spile upon the wharf to which the ship is moored, offering five
I guess he's the adulterer that broke jail in old Gomorrah, or belike, one of
too, that his head being shaved, his forehead was drawn out in freer and
brighter relief, and looked more expansive than it otherwise would, this I
will not venture to decide; but certain it was his head was phrenologically
their gamesome but still serious way, one whispers to the other --"Jack, he's
Strong intuitions of the man assure the mariners he can be no innocent.  In
Captain in the cabin, all the sailors for the moment desist from hoisting in
very projecting, like two long promontories thickly wooded on top.  Queequeg
was George Washington cannibalistically developed.  Whilst I was thus closely
and a lesson to me as a pilot of the living God.  As sinful men, it is a
.. <p 42 >
much as a single glance; but appeared wholly occupied with counting the
pages of the marvellous book.  Considering how sociably we had been sleeping
together the night previous, and especially considering the affectionate arm
be true, even though to be false were salvation!  Yea, woe to him who, as the
about us!  But what is this lesson that the book of Jonah teaches?
is to him whose strong arms yet support him, when the ship of this base
very strange.  But savages are strange beings; at times you do not know
a noble thing is that canticle in the fish's belly!  How billow-like and
woe is
the waves of the billows of the seas of the boisterous mob can never shake
Spain; as far by water, from Joppa, as Jonah could possibly have sailed in
to enlarge the circle of his acquaintances.  All this struck me as mighty
singular; yet, upon second thoughts, there was something almost sublime in
Tarshish.  There lurks, perhaps, a hitherto unheeded meaning here.  By all
     He skulks about the wharves of Joppa, and seeks a ship that's bound for
prophet!  What
entirely at his ease; preserving the utmost serenity; content with his own

philosophy; though no doubt he had never heard there was such a thing as
that.  But, perhaps, to be true philosophers, we mortals should not be
his countenance yet had a something in it which was by no means disagreeable.
disobeying ourselves, wherein the hardness of obeying God consists.  With
old woman, he must have broken his digester.  As I sat there in that now
lonely room; the fire burning low, in that mild stage when, after its first
a hard command.  But all the things that God would have us do are hard for us
finally the deliverance and joy of Jonah.  As with all sinners among men,
upon us silent, solitary twain; the storm booming without in solemn swells;
howling of the storm.  A brief pause ensued; the preacher slowly turned over
Shipmates, it is a two-stranded lesson; a lesson to us all as sinful men,
indifference speaking a nature in which there lurked no civilized hypocrisies
world charms from Gospel duty!  Woe to him who seeks to pour oil upon the
complaints -- No more the whale did me confine.  With speed he flew to my
that Queequeg never consorted at all, or but very little, with the other
world.  This soothing savage had redeemed it.  There he sat, his very
.. <p 41 >
as strange to him as though he were in the planet Jupiter; and yet he seemed
and hints, doing my best to talk with him meanwhile.  At first he little
noticed these advances; but presently, upon my referring to his last
does Jonah's deep sealine sound!  what a pregnant lesson to us is this
Jonah -- And God had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah.  Shipmates,
little complimented.  We then turned over the book together, and I endeavored
to explain to him the purpose of the printing, and the meaning of the few
would I come down from this mast-head and sit on the hatches there where you
Joppa, the modern Jaffa, shipmates, is on the most easterly coast of the
I called my God, When I could scarce believe him mine, He bowed his ear to my
and tomahawk, he quietly offered me a puff.  And then we sat exchanging puffs
from that wild pipe of his, and keeping it regularly passing between us.  If
in this famous town.  Soon I proposed a social smoke; and, producing his pouch
there yet lurked any ice of indifference towards me in the Pagan's breast,
this pleasant, genial smoke we had, soon thawed it out, and left us cronies.
all God's sun-lit waves rolled by, And lift me deepening down to doom.  I saw
round the waist, and said that henceforth we were married; meaning, in his
when our smoke was over, he pressed his forehead against mine, clasped me
would have repelled most others, they were the very magnets that thus drew
you; both his hands press upon me.  I have read ye by what murky light may
for me to join him; but well knowing what was to follow, I deliberated a
good Christian; born and bred in the bosom of the infallible Presbyterian
it seems, had lent him one,
moment whether, in case he invited me, I would comply or otherwise.  I was a
Queequeg, for his own private reasons, preferred his own harpoon.  Shifting
mortal combat, and deeply intimate with the hearts of whales.  In short, like
the barrow from my hand to his, he told me a funny story about the first
for his own harpoon, because it was of assured stuff, well tried in many a
streets, -- but at seeing him and me upon such confidential terms.  But we
the people laugh?  Upon this, he told me another story.  The people of his
at Queequeg so much --for they were used to seeing cannibals like him in their
water of young cocoanuts into a large stained calabash like a punchbowl; and
this punchbowl always forms the great central ornament on the braided mat
way in which to manage the barrow --Queequeg puts his chest upon it; lashes
schooner moored at the wharf.  As we were going along the people stared; not
hammock, away we went down to the Moss, the little Nantucket packet
wedding feast of Queequeg's sister, a pretty young princess just turned of
ten.  Well; when all the wedding guests were assembled at the bride's bamboo
the boarders, seemed amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had
     wheelbarrow next morning, Monday, after disposing of

illuminated by the flame of the new-lit lamp.  Whether it was that this
have their grace as well as we --though Queequeg told me that unlike us, who
the ducks, glance upwards to the great Giver of all feasts --Grace, I say,
.. < chapter xiii 2  WHEELBARROW >
the island; that is, dipping his consecrated and consecrating fingers into
the bowl before the blessed beverage circulates.  Seeing himself placed next
.. <p 57 >
forehead against mine, and blowing out the light, we rolled over from each
Queequeg smoking by me, even in bed, because he seemed to be full of such
ended with his pipe's last dying puff, Queequeg embraced me, pressed his
experienced harpooneer, and as such, could not fail to be of great usefulness
assented; for besides the affection I now felt for Queequeg, he was an
luggage safe, we stood on board the schooner.  Hoisting sail, it glided down
the Acushnet river.  On
same mess with me, in short to share my every hap; with both my hands in
ship aboard the same vessel, get into the same watch, the same boat, the
I told him that whaling was my own design, and informed him of my intention
had made a harpooneer of him, and that barbed iron was in lieu of a sceptre
ships lay silent and safely moored at last; while from others came a sound of
he proposed to sail about, and sow his wild oats in all four oceans.  They
He answered no, not yet; and added that he was fearful Christianity, or
perilous and long voyage ended, only begins a second; and a second ended,
only begins a third, and so on, for ever and for aye.  Such is the
not propose going back, and having a coronation; since he might now consider
.. <p 56 >
quick foam from her bows, as a young colt his snortings.  How I snuffed that
Tartar air! --how I spurned that turnpike earth! --that common highway all over
Thought he, it's a wicked world in all meridians; I'll die a pagan.
magnanimity of the sea which will permit no records.  At the same
foam-fountain, Queequeg seemed to drink and reel with me.  His dusky nostrils
swelled apart; he showed his filed and pointed teeth.  On, on we flew, and
our offing gained, the Moss did homage to the blast; ducked and dived her
his father's heathens.  Arrived at last in old Sag Harbor; and seeing what
Christians could be both miserable and wicked; infinitely more so, than all
content to toil in the shipyards of foreign cities, Queequeg disdained no
crouching manner for some time, when all at once I thought I would open my
glances of the passengers, a lubber-like assembly, who marvelled that two
fellow beings should be so companionable; as though a white man were anything
more dignified than a whitewashed negro.  But there were some boobies and
down among the sailors, and made a whaleman of him.  But like Czar Peter
dauntlessness, and his wild desire to visit Christendom, the captain at last
mimicking him behind his back.  I thought the bumpkin's hour of doom was come.
son of a King, and Queequeg budged not.  Struck by his desperate
him overboard; suspended a cutlass over his naked wrists; Queequeg was the
himself at full length upon the deck, grappled a ringbolt there, and swore not
down in the stern, paddle low in hand; and when the ship was gliding by,
     the island.  On one side was a coral reef; on the other a low tongue of
tapping his stern in mid-somerset, the fellow landed with bursting lungs upon
his feet, while Queequeg, turning his back upon him, lighted his tomahawk

could prevail.  But Queequeg vowed a vow.  Alone in his canoe, he paddled off
of seamen, spurned his suit; and not all the King his father's influence
.. <p 55 >
His father was a High Chief, a King; his uncle a High Priest; and on the
killed that chap?  What him say?  said Queequeg, as he mildly turned to me.
desire to see something more of Christendom than a specimen whaler or two.
green sapling; even then, in Queequeg's ambitious soul, lurked a strong
still shivering greenhorn.  Kill-e, cried Queequeg, twisting his tattooed
     Queequeg was a native of Kokovoko, an

roared the Captain, I'll kill-e you, you cannibal, if you try any more of
wheelbarrow he had ever seen.  It was in Sag Harbor.  The owners of his ship,
that it was high time for the Captain to mind his own eye.  The prodigious
.. < chapter xii 21  BIOGRAPHICAL >
.. <p 54 >
part of the deck.  The poor fellow whom Queequeg had handled so roughly, was
swept overboard; all hands were in a panic; and to attempt snatching at the
but ill comprehended not a few of his words, yet subsequent disclosures,
begged him to go on and tell it.  He gladly complied.  Though at the time I
snapping into splinters.  Nothing was done, and nothing seemed capable of
being done; those on deck rushed towards the bows, and stood eyeing the boom
but he now spoke of his native island; and, eager to hear his history, I
consternation, Queequeg dropped deftly to his knees, and crawling under the
path of the boom, whipped hold of a rope, secured one end to the bulwarks,
at such times look downwards to our platters, they, on the contrary, copying
comfortableness of sharing a pipe and a blanket with a real friend.  With our
was safe.  The schooner was run into the wind, and while the hands were
confabulations, what little nappishness remained in us altogether departed,
.. <p 54 >
said, that though I had felt such a strong repugnance to his smoking in
minutes or more he was seen swimming like a dog, throwing his long arms
straight out before him, and by turns revealing his brawny shoulders through
the freezing foam.  I looked at the grand and glorious fellow, but saw no one
to be saved.  The greenhorn had gone down.  Shooting himself perpendicularly
he felt a strong desire to have a few quiet puffs from his Tomahawk.  Be it
     and self-created darkness into the imposed and coarse outer gloom of the
minutes more, and he rose again, one arm still striking out, and with the
other dragging a lifeless form.  The boat soon picked them up.  The poor

eyes; for when between sheets, whether by day or by night, and whether
till poor Queequeg took his last long dive.  Was there ever such
unconsciousness?  He did not seem to think that he at all deserved a medal
by the plunging bowsprit, that for some time we did not notice the jeering
water -- something to wipe the brine off; that done, he put on dry clothes,
lighted his pipe, and leaning against the bulwarks, and mildly eyeing those
     For this reason a sleeping apartment should never be furnished with a fire,
where the feast is held.  Now a certain grand merchant ship once touched at
.. <p 61 >

     Nothing more happened on the passage worthy
hearts' honeymoon, lay I and Queequeg --a cosy, loving pair.
of your nose or the crown of your head be slightly chilled, why then, indeed,
be comfortable any more.  But if, like Queequeg and me in the bed, the tip
the mentioning; so, after a fine run, we safely arrived in Nantucket.
contrast.  Nothing exists in itself.  If you flatter yourself that you are all
bed-clothes too, seeing that there was no fire in the room.  The more so, I
twenty years as a substitute for blotting paper.  Some gamesome wights will
tell you that they have to plant weeds there, they don't
and snug, the more so since it was so chilly out of doors; indeed out of
bending over them, as if our knee-pans were warming-pans.  We felt very nice
idol; offered him burnt biscuit with Queequeg; salamed before him twice or
head-board with our four knees drawn up close together, and our two noses
there plant toadstools before their houses, to get under the shade in summer
time; that one blade of grass makes an oasis, three blades in a day's walk a
.. <p 53 >
and we felt like getting up again, though day-break was yet some way down the
King's own house --the Captain coolly proceeds to wash his hands in the punch
made an utter island of by the ocean, that to their very chairs and tables
small clams will sometimes be found adhering, as to the backs of sea
turtles.  But these extravaganzas only show that Nantucket is no Illinois.
     We had lain thus in bed, chatting and

the New England coast, and carried off an infant Indian in his talons.  With
loud lament the parents saw their child borne out of sight over the wide
waters.  They resolved to follow in the same direction.  Setting out in their
.. < chapter xi 24  NIGHTGOWN >
.. <p 52 >
livelihood!  They first caught crabs and quohogs in the sand; grown bolder,
then, that these Nantucketers, born on a beach, should take to the sea for a
they waded out with nets for mackerel; more experienced, they pushed off in
insignificant bit of black wood?  Impossible!  But what is worship? --to do the
there open the very bottom of their souls to each other; and some old couples
round it; peeped in at Behring's Straits; and in all seasons and all oceans
peace with our own consciences and all the world.  But we did not go to sleep
the flood; most monstrous and most mountainous!  That Himmalehan, salt-sea
beyond seas for a spile to stop a leak in an oil cask; that pieces of wood in
very panics are more to be dreaded than his most fearless and malicious
idolator.  So I kindled the shavings; helped prop up the innocent little
God.  Now, Queequeg is my fellow man.  And what do I wish that this Queequeg
so many Alexanders; parcelling out among
fellow man what I would have my fellow man to do to me -- that is the will of
them the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian oceans, as the three pirate powers did
world it occupies; how it stands there, away off shore, more lonely than the
and earth --pagans and all included --can possibly be jealous of an
.. <p 52 >
his; he owns it, as Emperors own empires; other seamen having but a right
of way through it.  Merchant ships are but extension bridges; armed ones but
Church.  How then could I unite with
land like themselves, without seeking to draw their living from the bottomless
your tricks aboard here; so mind your eye.  But it so happened just then,
world, in all meridians.  We cannibals must help these Christians.
     which a noah's flood would not interrupt, though it overwhelmed all the
Pequod, --this old Peleg, during the term of his chief-mateship, had built upon
between billows; so at nightfall, the Nantucketer, out of sight of land,
Peleg, many years her chief-mate, before he commanded another vessel of his
furls his sails, and lays him to his rest, while under his very pillow rush
carved buckler or bedstead.  She was
Canterbury Cathedral where Beckett bled.  But to all these her old
decks were worn and wrinkled, like the pilgrim-worshipped flag-stone in
of material and device, unmatched by anything except it be Thorkill-Hake's
of polished ivory.  She was a thing of trophies.  A cannibal of a craft,
own, and now a retired seaman, and one of the principal owners of the
stiffly up like the spines of the three old kings of Cologne.  Her ancient
French grenadier's, who has alike fought in Egypt and Siberia.  Her
and calms of all four oceans, her old hull's complexion was darkened like a
tricking herself forth in the chased bones of her enemies.  All round, her
tiller was in one mass, curiously carved from the long narrow lower jaw of her
     you never saw such a rare old craft as this same rare old Pequod.  She was a

noble craft, but somehow a most melancholy!  All noble things are touched
turnstile wheel at her reverend helm, she sported there a tiller; and that
Japanese junks; butter-box galliots, and what not; but take my word for it,
craft in your day, for aught I know; --squared-toed luggers; mountainous
rather wigwam, pitched a little behind the main-mast.  It seemed only a
temporary erection used in port.  It was of a conical shape, some ten feet
finally, going on board the Pequod, looked around her for a moment, and then
the middle and highest part of the jaws of the right-whale.  Planted with their
obvious; Pequod, you will no doubt remember, was the name of a celebrated
and the pequod.  devil- dam, i do not know the origin of; tit-bit is
the loose hairy fibres waved to and fro like a top-knot on some old
his sacrificial fire of shavings, I sallied out among the shipping.  After
the ship, so that the insider commanded a complete view forward.  And half
day; how it was I never could find out, for, though I applied myself to it
.. <p 68 >
suspended, was now enjoying respite from the burden of command.  He was seated
on an old-fashioned oaken chair, wriggling all over with curious carving; and
the bottom of which was formed of a stout interlacing of the same elastic
stuff of which the wigwam was constructed.  There was nothing so very
that
Ramadan, or day of fasting, humiliation, and prayer with Queequeg and Yojo
Yojo in our little bedroom --for it seemed that it was some sort of Lent or
seamen, and heavily rolled up in blue pilot-cloth, cut in the Quaker style;
only there was a fine and almost microscopic net-work of the minutest wrinkles
determined rushing sort of energy and vigor, that should quickly settle that
sailings in many hard gales, and always looking to windward; --for this
acquiesce; and accordingly prepared to set about this business with a
as all my remonstrances produced no effect upon Queequeg, I was obliged to
Queequeg's, or rather Yojo's, touching the selection of our craft; I did not
but in all cases did not succeed in his benevolent designs.  Now, this plan of
thinking of shipping.  Thou wast, wast thou?  I see thou are no Nantucketer
as a rather good sort of god, who perhaps meant well enough upon the whole,
Queequeg placed great confidence in the excellence of Yojo's judgment and
shall soon learn.  I've been several voyages in the merchant service, and I
think that-- Merchant service be damned.  Talk not that lingo to me.  Dost
chance; and in that vessel I must immediately ship myself, for the present
everyway, that instead of our going together among the whaling-fleet in
unpanelled, open bulwarks were garnished like one continuous jaw, with the
politeness.  Clam or Cod?  she repeated.  A clam for supper?  a cold clam;
--and Yojo had told him two or three times over, and strongly insisted upon it

.. < chapter xvi 2  THE SHIP >
thou gettest to sea?  I protested my innocence of these things.  I saw that
under the mask of these half humorous inuendoes, this old seaman, as an
.. <p 67 >
dangerous weepons in their rooms at night.  So, Mr. Queequeg (for she had
Vineyard.  But what takes thee a-whaling?  I want to know that before I think
of shipping ye.  Well, sir, I want to see what whaling is.  I want to see
the world.  Want to see what whaling is, eh?  Have ye clapped eye on
harpoon in his side; ever since then I allow no boarders to take sich
     Because it's dangerous, says she.  Ever since young Stiggs coming from that

     Who is Captain Ahab, sir?  Aye, aye, I thought so.  Captain Ahab is the
Captain of this ship.  I am mistaken then.  I thought I was speaking to the
Captain himself.  Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg --that's who ye are
speaking to, young man.  It belongs to me and Captain Bildad to see the
Pequod fitted out for the voyage, and supplied with all her needs, including
Queequeg was about to precede me up the stairs, the lady reached forth her
wantest to know what whaling is, as thou tellest ye do, I can put ye in a way
of finding it out before ye bind yourself to it, past backing out.  Clap eye
directions from Mrs. Hussey concerning the nearest way to bed; but, as
There was a fishy flavor to the milk, too, which I could not at all account
fish-bones coming through your clothes.  The area before the house was paved
Fishiest of all fishy places was the Try Pots, which well deserved its name;
Queequeg, ain't that a live eel in your bowl?  Where's your harpoon?
pair of prodigious black pots too!  Are these last throwing out oblique hints
monstrousest parmacetty that ever chipped a boat! --ah, ah!  I was a little
head?  What's that stultifying saying about chowder-headed people?  But look,
the time, but I could not help staring at this gallows with a vague
.. <p 66 >
before us.  We resumed business; and while plying our spoons in the
lungs are a sort of soft, d'ye see; thou dost not talk shark a bit.  Sure,
with that.  Now when I looked about the quarter-deck, for some one having
told you that I had been four voyages in the merchant-- Hard down out of
     Stepping to the kitchen door, I uttered the word cod with great emphasis,
won't have it.  But let us understand each other.  I have given thee a hint
little like a gallows.  Perhaps I was over sensitive to such impressions at

Hussey's clam and cod announcement, I thought I would try a little experiment.
positively indispensable to do so; not to be got rid of, that is; which I
don't take to be the fact.  Good again.  Now then, thou not only wantest to
great expedition: when leaning back a moment and bethinking me of Mrs.
him, and the chowder being surpassingly excellent, we despatched it with
bigger than hazel nuts, mixed with pounded ship biscuit, and salted pork cut
Oh, sweet friends!  hearken to me.  It was made of small juicy clams, scarcely
then, just step forward there, and take a peep over the weather-bow, and
then back to me and tell me what ye see there.  For a moment I stood a little
     clam for two, disappeared.  Queequeg, said I, do you think that we can

scowl, Captain Peleg started me on the errand.  Going forward and glancing
over the weather bow, I perceived that the ship swinging to her anchor with
the flood-tide, was now obliquely pointing towards the open ocean.  The
prospect was unlimited, but exceedingly monotonous and forbidding; not the
Hussey hurried towards an open door leading to the kitchen, and bawling out
when I came back; what did ye see?  Not much, I replied -- nothing but
water; considerable horizon though, and there's a squall coming up, I
great hurry to resume scolding the man in the purple shirt, who was waiting
clammy reception in the winter time, ain't it, Mrs Hussey?  But being in a
ye feel considerable proud of having served in those marchant ships.  But
flukes!  man, what makes thee want to go a whaling, eh? --it looks a little
said-- Clam or Cod?  What's that about Cods, ma'am?  said I, with much
to ship me.  And thou mayest as well sign the papers right off, he added
And so it turned out; Mr. Hosea Hussey being from home, but leaving Mrs.
.. <p 65 >
surprising figure.  It turned out to be Captain Bildad, who along with
his chowders.  In short, he plainly hinted that we could not possibly do
     Come on, Queequeg, said I, all right.  There's Mrs. Hussey.

be the proprietor of one of the best kept hotels in all Nantucket, and
ship.  People in Nantucket invest their money in whaling vessels, the same
way that you do yours in approved state stocks bringing in good interest.
the inn, under a dull red lamp swinging there, that looked much like an
alarmed by his energy, perhaps also a little touched at the hearty grief in
was a Quaker, the island having been originally settled by that sect; and to
this day its inhabitants in general retain in an uncommon measure the
no doubt true enough, sir; but how could I know there was any peculiar
about what whaling is; do ye yet feel inclined for it?  I do, sir.  Very
the most sanguinary of all sailors and whale-hunters.  They are fighting
black, and suspended by asses' ears, swung from the cross-trees of an old
them of men, who, named with Scripture names --a singularly common fashion on
the island --and in childhood naturally imbibing the stately dramatic thee and
thou of the Quaker idiom; still, from the audacious, daring, and boundless
     hand, whereas I had understood Peter Coffin to say it was on the starboard.

Scandinavian sea-king, or a poetical Pagan Roman.  And when these things unite
could attend to no business that day, at least none but a supper and a bed.
in a man of greatly superior natural force, with a globular brain and a
night-watches in the remotest waters, and beneath constellations never seen
man we met where the place was: these crooked directions of his very much
ponderous heart; who has also by the stillness and seclusion of many long
receiving all nature's sweet or savage impressions fresh from her own virgin
church to the larboard, and then keeping that on the larboard hand till we
about keeping a yellow warehouse on our starboard hand till we opened a white
makes one in a whole nation's census --a mighty pageant creature, formed for
noble tragedies.  Nor will it at all detract from him, dramatically regarded,
better than try pot-luck at the Try Pots.  But the directions he had given us
overruling morbidness at the bottom of his nature.  For all men tragically
great are made so through a certain morbidness.  Be sure of this, O young
Captain Peleg was one of the largest owners of the vessel; the other shares,
about the value of a timber head, or a foot of plank, or a nail or two in the
peculiar, it only results again from another phase of the Quaker, modified by
individual circumstances.  Like Captain Peleg, Captain Bildad was a well-to-do,
retired whaleman.  But unlike Captain Peleg --who cared not a rush for what
.. <p 64 >
the veriest of all trifles --Captain Bildad
.. <p 74 >
The landlord of the Spouter-Inn had recommended us to his cousin Hosea Hussey
Nantucket Quakerism, but all his subsequent ocean life, and the sight of many
unclad, lovely island creatures, round the Horn --all that had not moved this
native born Quaker one single jot, had not so much as altered one angle of
herds of walruses and whales.
     It was quite late in the evening when the
invaded the Atlantic and Pacific; and though a sworn foe to human bloodshed,
scruples, to bear arms against land invaders, yet himself had illimitably
voluntary and confiding breast, and thereby chiefly, but with some help from

.. < chapter xv 27  CHOWDER >
sage and sensible conclusion that a man's religion is one thing, and this
seem to concern him much, and very probably he had long since come to the
.. <p 63 >
broad shad-bellied waistcoat; from that becoming boat-header, chief-mate, and
captain, and finally a ship-owner; Bildad, as I hinted before, had concluded
his adventurous career by wholly retiring from active life at the goodly age
of sixty, and dedicating his remaining days to the quiet receiving of his
well-earned income.  Now Bildad, I am sorry to say, had the reputation of
ye've been to sea before now; sure of that?  Sir, said I, I thought I
yet had he in his straight-bodied coat, spilled tuns upon tuns of leviathan
you stand?  I was a little staggered, but go a-whaling I must, and I would;
.. <p 75 >
drab-colored eye intently looking at you, made you feel completely nervous,
like mad, at something or other, never mind what.  Indolence and
proceeded far, when I began to bethink me that the captain with whom I was to
Yojo had provided to carry Queequeg and me round the Cape.  But I had not
sail yet remained unseen by me; though, indeed, in many cases, a whale-ship
his book, Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth--
that sort, he does not trouble himself much about his ship in port, but
leaves her to the owners till all is ready for sea.  However, it is always as
voyages are so prolonged, and the shore intervals at home so exceedingly
done a good morning's work, and that the Pequod was the identical ship that
was to be found.  And what dost thou want of Captain Ahab?  It's all right
proceedings; Bildad never heeded us, but went on mumbling to himself out of
And, after signing the papers, off I went; nothing doubting but that I had
.. <p 79 >
well to have a look at him before irrevocably committing yourself into his
Peleg was vainly trying to mend a pen with his jack-knife, old Bildad, to my
Captain Peleg.  Well, bring him along then.
like him well enough; no fear, no fear.  he's a grand, ungodly, god-like
man, Captain Ahab; doesn't speak much; but, when he does speak, then you may
well listen.  Mark ye, be forewarned; Ahab's above the common; Ahab's been
he ever whaled it any?  turning to me.  Killed more whales than I can count,
burying himself.  Oh!  never thee mind about that, Bildad, said Peleg.  Has
lance!  aye, the keenest and the surest that out of all our isle!  Oh!  he
me who wants to ship too --shall I bring him down to-morrow?  To be sure,
for the three hundredth lay.  Captain Peleg, said I, I have a friend with
that wicked king was slain, the dogs, did they not lick his blood?
man, Ishmael's thy name, didn't ye say?  Well then, down ye go here, Ishmael,
     here needs the grindstone.  That's he; thank ye, Bildad.  Now then, my young

eye that almost startled me.  Look ye, lad; never say that on board the
Pequod.  Never say it anywhere.  Captain Ahab did not name himself. 'Twas a
foolish, ignorant whim of his crazy, widowed mother, who died when he was
only a twelvemonth old.  And yet the old squaw Tistig, at Gayhead, said that
the name would somehow prove prophetic.  And, perhaps, other fools like her
     though he twitched a little as if still nervously agitated.  Whew!  he

--something like me --only there's a good deal more of him.  Aye, aye, I know
distrustful about receiving a generous share of the profits was this: Ashore,
good man --not a pious, good man, like Bildad, but a swearing good man
little out of his mind for a spell; but it was the sharp shooting pains in
his bleeding stump that brought that about, as any one might see.  I know,
that he was never very jolly; and I know that on the passage home, he was a
he had, there seemed no more left in him, and he, too, sat down like a lamb,
impenitent Peleg and his ways.  As for Peleg, after letting off his rage as
I stepped aside from the door to give egress to Bildad, who, I made no doubt,
idea of sailing in a vessel so questionably owned and temporarily commanded,
have been surprised had I been offered the 200th, considering I was of a
too, that ever since he lost his leg last voyage by that accursed whale, he's
sweet, resigned girl.  Think of that; by that sweet girl that old man has a
and responsible owners of the ship, and feeling half a mind to give up all
Bildad, but with a marvellous oblique, sliding celerity, Bildad for that
away, I was full of thoughtfulness; what had been incidentally revealed to
me of Captain Ahab, filled me with a certain wild vagueness of painfulness
concerning him.  And somehow, at the time, I felt a sympathy and a sorrow for
gun --a straight wake with ye!  As he thundered out this he made a rush at
wicked name.  Besides, my boy, he has a wife --not three voyages wedded --a
hair and horns on.  Out of the cabin, ye canting, drab-colored son of a wooden
     Fiery pit!  fiery pit!  ye insult me, man; past all natural bearing, ye
what seemed like mystery in him, so imperfectly as he was known to me then.
fortunes, and am quite content if the world is ready to board and lodge me,

.. < chapter xvii 2  THE RAMADAN >
and board, for which I would not have to pay one stiver.  It might be thought
greatly fear lest thy conscience be but a leaky one; and will in the end
i can't tell; but as thou art still an impenitent man, captain Peleg, I
a conscience to lug about that would be heavy enough to founder the largest
ship that ever sailed round Cape Horn.  Captain Peleg, said Bildad
religious obligations, never mind how comical, and could not find it in my
Bildad, if I had followed thy advice in these matters, I would afore now had
those other creatures in certain parts of our earth, who with a degree of
footmanism quite unprecedented in other planets, bow down before the torso
orphans, many of them --and that if we too abundantly reward the labors of this
possessions yet owned and rented in his name.  I say, we good Presbyterian
consider the duty thou owest to the other owners of this ship-- widows and
towards night-fall; for I cherish the greatest respect towards everybody's
nett proceeds of the voyage, whatever that might eventually amount to.  And
hundredth lay, I say.  Bildad laid down his book, and turning solemnly
that?  Queequeg thought he knew what he was about, I suppose; he seemed to be
the three hundredth, said Peleg, do ye hear that, Bildad!  The three
cried Peleg, Thou dost not want to swindle this young man!  he must have
doubloons; and so I thought at the time.  Why, blast your eyes, Bildad,
need mending.  Towards evening, when I felt assured that all his performances
is a pretty large number, yet, when you come to make a teenth of it, you
no answer.  I tried to open it, but it was fastened inside.  Queequeg, said
corrupt.  It was an exceedingly long lay that, indeed; and though from the
speak?  It's I--Ishmael.  But all remained still as before.  I began to grow
hundred and seventy-seventh!  Well, old Bildad, you are determined that I,
     Thou knowest best, was the sepulchral reply, the seven hundred and

sinister one.  I could only see part of the foot-board of the bed and a line of
give this young man?
     Well, Captain Bildad, interrupted Peleg, what d'ye say, what lay shall we
the wall, but nothing more.  I was surprised to behold resting against the
vastly superior to other mortals, pagans and what not, because of their

brief, that if the captain have a family, or any absorbing concernment of
seldom or never goes abroad without it, therefore he must be inside here,
enough; thou art shipped.  Yes, but I should like to see him.  But I
Any how, young man, he won't always see me, so I don't suppose he will thee.
hands, especially as I now found him on board the Pequod, quite at home there
but what the stingy old Bildad might have a mighty deal to say about shipping
person i met --the chambermaid.  la!  la!  she cried, i thought something
must be the matter.  I went to make the bed after breakfast, and the door
wall the wooden shaft of Queequeg's harpoon, which the landlady the evening
since.  But I thought, may be, you had both gone off and locked your baggage
     I had heard something of both Captain Peleg and his unaccountable old crony

Mrs. Hussey soon appeared, with a mustard-pot in one hand and a vinegar-cruet
castors, and scolding her little black boy meantime.  Wood-house!  cried I,
his drab vesture was buttoned up to his chin; and spectacles on nose, he
chest, and drawing forth the ship's articles, placed pen and ink before him,
broad-shouldered make.  But one thing, nevertheless, that made me a little
door --the axe! --the axe!  he's had a stroke; depend upon it! --and so saying I
his utilitarian character.  On his long, gaunt body, he carried no spare
interposed the mustard-pot and vinegar-cruet, and the entire castor of her
good-bye to thee --and wrong not Captain Ahab, because he happens to have a
I thought that the 275th lay would be about the fair thing, but would not
said the landlady, quickly putting down the vinegar-cruet, so as to have one
hand free; look here; are you talking about prying open any of my doors?
mumbling tone quite audible.  I thought him the queerest old Quaker I ever saw,
matter with you, shipmate?  In as calm, but rapid a manner as possible, I
hollow tone, and turning round to me.  I dost, said I unconsciously, he was
vinegar-cruet
for the clothing I would wear out on it, not to speak of my three years' beef
better than nothing; and if we had a lucky voyage, might pretty nearly pay
haven't seen it since I put it there.  Running to a little closet under the
landing of the stairs, she glanced in, and returning, told me that Queequeg's
half-crazy conceits on these subjects.  There was Queequeg, now, certainly
stiggs done over again --there goes another counterpane --god pity his poor
mother! --it will be the ruin of my house.  Has the poor lad a sister?  Where's
that girl? --there, Betty, go to Snarles the Painter, and tell him to paint
should be offered at least the 275th lay --that is, the 275th part of the clear
I was also aware that being a green hand at whaling, my own lay would not be
.. <p 76 >
up after me, she caught me as I was again trying to force open the door.  I
was locked; and not a mouse to be heard; and it's been just so silent ever
     lays, and that these lays were proportioned to the degree of importance

she turned it in the lock; but, alas!  Queequeg's supplemental bolt remained
unwithdrawn within.  Have to burst it open, said I, and was running down
the entry a little, for a good start, when the landlady caught at me, again
vowing I should not break down her premises; but I tore from her, and with a
hands, including the captain, received certain shares of the profits called
I was already aware that in the whaling business they paid no wages; but all
altogether cool and self-collected; right in the middle of the room;
plaster to the ceiling; and there, good heavens!  there sat Queequeg,
seemed absorbed in reading from a ponderous volume.  Bildad, cried Captain
     and seated himself at a little table.  I began to think it was high time to

active life.  Queequeg, said I, going up to him, Queequeg, what's the
matter with you?  He hain't been a sittin' so all day, has he?  said the
landlady.  But all we said, not a word could we drag out of him; I almost
won't allow it; I won't have my premises spoiled.  Go for the locksmith,
But I said nothing, only looking round me sharply.  Peleg now threw open a
However, my thoughts were at length carried in other directions, so that for
constrained; especially, as in all probability he had been sitting so for
upwards of eight or ten hours, going too without his regular meals.  Mrs.
The space between the decks was small; and there, bolt-upright, sat old
Bildad, said Peleg, he wants to ship.  Dost thee?  said Bildad, in a
Bildad, without noticing his present irreverence, quietly looked up, and
Bildad?  As if long habituated to such profane talk from his old shipmate,
he sat; and all he could do --for all my polite arts and blandishments --he
like the worn nap of his broad-brimmed hat.  Such, then, was the person that I
notice my presence in any the slightest way.  I wonder, thought I, if this can
possibly be a part of his Ramadan; do they fast on their hams that way in his
Peleg, at it again, Bildad, eh?  Ye have been studying those Scriptures,
last for ever, thank God, and his Ramadan only comes once a year; and I
was unmethodically rushing up stairs again empty-handed, when Mrs. Hussey
flesh, no superfluous beard, his chin having a soft, economical nap to it,
in the other, having just broken away from the occupation of attending to the
Bildad, who always sat so, and never leaned, and this to save his coat
only); after listening to these plum-puddingers till nearly eleven o'clock,
well, then, let him rest; he'll get up sooner or later, no doubt.  It can't
will be completely fitted out, and receive all her crew on board, ere the
would not move a peg, nor say a single word, nor even look at me, nor
squatting on his hams, and holding Yojo on top of his head.  He looked neither
there all day and half the night on his hams in a cold room, holding a piece
yet he don't look so.  In fact, he ain't sick; but no, he isn't well either.
yet I also felt a strange awe of him; but that sort of awe, which I cannot at
I could not get into the faintest doze.  I had blown out the candle; and the
had nothing but his ordinary round jacket on.  For some time, do all I would,
Thou beliest thine own heart, Peleg.  Tell me, when this same Pequod here had
have the fear of death; how, then, can'st thou prate in this ungodly guise.
her three masts overboard in that typhoon on Japan, that same voyage when
I myself, hast seen many a perilous time; thou knowest, Peleg, what it is to
     Peleg!  Peleg!  said Bildad, lifting his eyes and hands, thou thyself, as
mere thought of Queequeg--
and the judgment then?  What?  With all three masts making such an everlasting
thou went mate with Captain Ahab, did'st thou not think of Death and the

frightened about his plaguy soul, that he shrinked and sheered away from
     Life was what Captain Ahab and I was thinking of; and how to save all hands
the Vineyard; he joined the meeting, and never came to good.  He got so
thundering against the side; and every sea breaking over us, fore and aft.
.. <p 90 >
spoiling our harpooneer,
sail-makers who were mending a top-sail in the waist.  Now and then he
stooped to pick up a patch, or save an end of tarred twine, which otherwise
Bell, and the hideous dragon; turn from the wrath to come; mind thine eye,
fear, I beseech thee, remain not for aye a Belial bondsman.  Spurn the idol
it in queequeg's hands, and then grasping them and the book with both his,
and selecting one entitled The Latter Day Coming; or No Time to Lose, placed
huge pockets of his broad-skirted drab coat, took out a bundle of tracts,
Peleg's obstinate mistake touching his appellative, it stood something like
was thinking of.  Bildad said no more, but buttoning up his coat, stalked on
water, for the moment each occupied with his own thoughts, when the above
part in similar ceremonies, looked no ways abashed; but taking the offered
signing, he turned to me and said, I guess Quohog there don't know how to
     Nantucket.  So down we went into the cabin, and to my great joy Queequeg

rushing waters have been dried up.  Have ye shipped in her?  he repeated.
     Quick, I say, you Bildad, and get the ship's papers.  We must have Hedgehog

time for an uninterrupted look at him.  Aye, the Pequod --that ship there, he
said, drawing back his whole arm, and then rapidly shoving it straight out
.. <p 89 >

there about your souls?  About what?  Oh, perhaps you hav'n't got any, he
said quickly.  no matter though, i know many chaps that hav'n't got any,
dad whale dead.  Quick, Bildad, said Peleg, his partner, who, aghast at the
aim at it, he darted the iron right over old Bildad's broad brim, clean across
You see him?  well, spose him one whale eye, well, den!  and taking sharp
other chaps, abruptly said the stranger, placing a nervous emphasis upon the
word he.  Queequeg, said I, let's go; this fellow has broken loose from
somewhere; he's talking about something and somebody we don't know.
and he handles it about right.  I say, Quohog, or whatever your name is, did
Peleg, drawing nearer.  Young man, you'd better ship for a missionary,
     in that we all join hands.  Splice, thou mean'st splice hands, cried
earnestness of his manner.  Captain Ahab.  What!  the captain of our ship,
finally, he no doubt thought he knew a good deal more about the true religion
have ye?  Who's Old Thunder?  said I, again riveted with the insane

before long!  laughed the stranger, with a solemnly derisive sort of laugh.
considered from his own point of view; and, in the second place, he did not
First Congregation of this whole worshipping world; we all belong to that;
and every mother's son and soul of us belong; the great and everlasting
is getting better, and will be all right again before long.  All right again
place, he somehow seemed dull of hearing on that important subject, unless
which you and I, and Captain Peleg there, and Queequeg here, and all of us,
hard pushed, I replied.  I mean, sir, the same ancient Catholic Church to
Congregational Church.  He is a deacon himself, Queequeg is.  Young man,
     all I know is, that Queequeg here is a born member of the First

in the yard or garden of the victor; and then, one by one, they were placed
just so I now did with Queequeg.  Queequeg, said I, get into bed now, and
     I don't know anything about Deacon Deuteronomy or his meeeting, said I,

hear a word about them matters and something more, eh?  No, I don't think ye
did; how could ye?  Who knows it?  Not all Nantucket, I guess.  But
hows'ever, mayhap, ye've heard tell about the leg, and how he lost it; aye,
words were put to us by a stranger, who, pausing before us, levelled his
mean they know he's only one leg; and that a parmacetti took the other off.
.. <p 88 >
cried Bildad, is this Philistine a regular member of Deacon Deuteronomy's
know, and I don't much care; for it seems to me that you must be a little
damaged in the head.  But if you are speaking of Captain Ahab, of that ship
there, the Pequod, then let me tell you, that I know all about the loss of
his leg.
a member?  he then said, turning to me; not very long, I rather guess,
over the bulwarks, took a good long look at Queequeg.  How long hath he been
putting them on very carefully, came out of the wigwam, and leaning stiffly
Deuteronomy Coleman's meeting-house?  and so saying, taking out his
     First Congregational Church, cried Bildad, what!  that worships in Deacon
shipped, have ye?  Names down on the papers?  Well, well, what's signed, is
signed; and what's to be, will be; and then again, perhaps it wont be, after

'em!  Morning to ye, shipmates, morning; the ineffable heavens bless ye; I'm
.. <p 86 >
communion with any christian church?  Why, said I, he's a member of the
important to tell us, out with it; but if you are only trying to bamboozle
sorry I stopped ye.  Look here, friend, said I, if you have anything
us, you are mistaken in your game; that's all I have to say.  And it's said
Son of darkness, he added, turning to Queequeg, art thou at present in
by that, Captain Peleg?  said I, now jumping on the bulwarks, and leaving my
very well, and I like to hear a chap talk up that way; you are just the man
the world for a man to look as if he had a great secret in him.  Morning to
ye, shipmates, morning.  Morning it is, said I. Come along, Queequeg,
that craft, unless they previously produced their papers.  What do you mean
     As we were walking down the end of the wharf

each other's fashion, upon this ragged old sailor; and agreed that he was
nothing but a humbug, trying to be a bugbear.  But we had not gone perhaps
.. < chapter xviii 2  HIS MARK >
.. <p 87 >
Somehow, the sight of him struck me so, that I said nothing to Queequeg of
his being behind, but passed on with my comrade, anxious to see whether the
necessarily be half-starved.  This is the reason why most dyspeptic
stranger would turn the same corner that we did.  He did; and then it seemed
of me imagine.  This circumstance, coupled with his ambiguous, half-hinting,
and dressed; and Queequeg, taking a prodigiously hearty breakfast of chowders
man should be so hopelessly lost to evangelical pagan piety.  At last we rose
he being in other things such an extremely sensible and sagacious savage, it
the Pequod; and Captain Ahab; and the leg he had lost; and the Cape Horn
first glimpse of sun entered the window, up he got, with stiff and grating
all right; not before.  What do you know about him?  What did they tell
about religion made much impression upon Queequeg.  Because, in the first
things.  I was resolved to satisfy myself whether this ragged Elijah was
really dogging us or not, and with that intent crossed the way with Queequeg,
deadly skrimmage with the Spaniard afore the altar in Santa? -- heard nothing
custom, when a great battle had been gained there, to barbecue all the slain
seeming to notice us.  This relieved me; and once more, and finally as it
seemed to me, I pronounced him in my heart, a humbug.
a sailor who had visited that very island, and he told me that it was the
do; for I knew the inferences without his further hinting them.  I had seen
eaten that very evening.  No more, Queequeg, said I, shuddering; that will
had been killed by about two o'clock in the afternoon, and all cooked and
because that other person don't believe it also.  But when a man's religion
new sails were coming on board, and bolts of canvas, and coils of rigging;
in short, everything betokened that the ship's preparations were hurrying to a
hereditary dyspepsias nurtured by Ramadans.
keeping a sharp look-out upon the hands: Bildad did all the purchasing and
providing at the stores; and the men employed in the hold and on the rigging
to me that he was dogging us, but with what intent I could not for the life
signing the articles, word was given at all the inns where the ship's company
were stopping, that their chests must be on board before night, for there
was no telling how soon the vessel might be sailing.  So Queequeg and I got
an undigested apple-dumpling; and since then perpetuated through the
before hinted, I have no objection to any person's religion, be it what it
sail for several days.  But no wonder; there was a good deal to be done, and
there
pained me, very badly pained me, to see him now so deplorably foolish about
the Pequod?  Aye, among some of us old sailor chaps, he goes by that name.
Lents, Ramadans, and prolonged ham-squattings in cold, cheerless rooms were
ago, when he lay like dead for three days and nights; nothing about that
indispensable to the business of housekeeping.  Just so with whaling, which
necessitates a three-years' housekeeping upon the wide ocean, far from all
high time to take that individual aside and argue the point with him.  And
becomes really frantic; when it is a positive torment to him; and, in fine,
with whalemen.  For besides the great length of the whaling voyage, the
numerous articles peculiar to the prosecution of the fishery, and the
.. <p 85 >
to accidents of all kinds, and especially to the destruction and loss of the
very things upon which the success of the voyage most depends.  Hence, the
were working till long after night-fall.  On the day following Queequeg's
ye.  Think of that!  When every moment we thought the ship would sink!  Death
Queequeg, as if he had been screwed down to the floor.  But as soon as the
comprising her beef, bread, water, fuel, and iron hoops and staves.  But, as
night in the same room with a wide awake pagan on his hams in this dreary,
ye have heard of that, I dare say.  Oh yes, that every one knows a'most --I
you about him?  Say that!  They didn't tell much of anything about him; only
you can't fool us that way --you can't fool us.  It is the easiest thing in
Charity --Aunt Charity, as everybody called her.  And like a sister of
charity did this charitable Aunt Charity bustle about hither and thither,
crew sprang for the handspikes.  Now, in getting under weigh, the station
     Man the capstan!  Blood and thunder! --jump! --was the next command, and the
generally occupied by the pilot is the forward part of the ship.  And here
made a pilot in order to save the Nantucket pilot-fee to all the ships he was

except in port; and on board the Pequod, for thirty years, the order to
at his frantic impudence.  At last, stepping on board the Pequod, we found
next day the ship would certainly sail.  So next morning, Queequeg and I took
in Booble Alley, with hearty good will.  Nevertheless, not three days
one of the licensed pilots of the port --he being suspected to have got himself
     Aft here, ye sons of bachelors, he cried, as the sailors lingered at the
previous, Bildad had told them that no profane songs would be allowed on
frost this morning, ain't it?  Good bye to ye.  Shan't see ye again very

ready to turn her hand and heart to anything that promised to yield safety,
ripped and swore astern in the most frightful manner.  I almost thought he
alive.  He seemed to do most of the talking and commanding, and not Bildad.
not much chance to think over the matter, for Captain Peleg was now all
comforting myself, however, with the thought that in pious Bildad might be
sister, had placed a small choice copy of Watts in each seaman's berth.
themselves on deck for a considerable time after heaving up the anchor, but
business, but the pilot's; and as he was not yet completely recovered --so
.. <p 101 >
the marchant service?  he roared.  Spring, thou sheep-head; spring, and
break thy backbone!  why don't ye spring, i say, all of ye--spring!  Quohog!
joint-commanders at sea, as well as to all appearances in port.  And, as for
thou green pants.  Spring, I say, all of ye, and spring your eyes out!  And
so saying, he moved along the windlass, here and there using his leg very
going it with a high hand on the quarter-deck, just as if they were to be
away with thee, friend Starbuck, and do our bidding.  How now!  Here upon the
was up, the sails were set, and off we glided.  It was a short, cold
Captain Ahab is all ready --just spoke to him --nothing more to be got from
captains, Peleg and Bildad, issued from the cabin, and turning to the chief
in ice, as in polished armor.  The long rows of teeth on the bulwarks
glistened in the moonlight; and like the white ivory tusks of some huge
brother-in-law, and a spare bible for the steward -- after all this, the two
headed the first watch, and ever and anon, as the old craft deep dived into
the green seas, and sent the shivering frost all over her, and the winds
howled, and the cordage rang, his steady notes were heard, -- Sweet fields
     At length, towards noon, upon the

more sweetly to me than then.  They were full of hope and fruition.  Spite of
this frigid
.. < chapter xxii 12  MERRY CHRISTMAS >
when I felt a sudden sharp poke in my rear, and turning round, was horrified
jacket, there was yet, it then seemed to me, many a pleasant haven in
Captain Ahab remained invisibly enshrined within his cabin.
the spring, untrodden, unwilted, remains at midsummer.  At last we gained such
matter-of-fact question, I answered, saying,
shore people were busy in bringing various last things on board.  Meanwhile
unpleasing, how Peleg and Bildad were affected at this juncture, especially
bestirred themselves; the mates were actively engaged; and several of the
I was going to ask him some further questions concerning Ahab, when we heard a
like men going towards that ship a while ago?  Struck by this plain
which an old shipmate sailed as captain; a man almost as old as he, once
more starting to encounter all the terrors of the pitiless jaw; loath to say
.. <p 100 >

cabin to speak another farewell word there; again came on deck, and looked
to windward; looked towards the wide and endless waters, only bounded by the
far-off unseen Eastern Continents; looked towards the land, looked aloft;
then revolved over once or twice; then sat up and rubbed his eyes.  Holloa!
mechanically coiling a rope upon its pin, convulsively grasped stout Peleg by
He breathed with a sort of muffledness; then seemed troubled in the nose;
easy!  He was going on with some wild reminiscences about his tomahawk-pipe,
winter night in the boisterous Atlantic, spite of my wet feet and wetter
for all his philosophy, there was a tear twinkling in his eye, when the
convertible into walking-sticks; upon occasion, a chief calling his attendant,
convenient on an excursion; much better than those garden-chairs which are
last, he turned to his comrade, with a final sort of look about him, -- Captain
custom of fattening some of the lower orders for ottomans; and to furnish a
of all sorts, the king, chiefs, and great people generally, were in the
to just beyond the head of the sleeper, and lighted his tomahawk pipe.  I sat
he'll twitch you off soon.  I wonder he don't wake.  Queequeg removed himself
.. <p 99 >
enough; and then, without more ado, sat quietly down there.  Gracious!
have a hot supper smoking for ye in old Nantucket.  Hurrah and away!  God
He put his hand upon the sleeper's rear, as though feeling if it was soft
incoherently.  I hope ye'll have fine weather now, so that Captain Ahab may
soon be moving among ye --a pleasant sun is all he needs, and ye'll have
plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go.  Be careful in the hunt, ye mates.
not for Elijah's otherwise inexplicable question.  But I beat the thing down;
raised full three per cent.  within the year.  Don't forget your prayers,
have thought myself to have been optically deceived in that matter, were it
sail-needles are in the green locker!  Don't whale it too much a' Lord's days,
men; but don't miss a fair chance either, that's rejecting Heaven's good
Seeing a light, we went down, and found only an old rigger there, wrapped in a
Going forward to the forecastle, we found the slide of the scuttle open.
everything in profound quiet, not a soul moving.  The cabin entrance was
and at intervals singing what seemed a dismal stave of psalmody, to cheer the
was, and mind ye, if-- Come, come, Captain Bildad; stop palavering, --away!
and with that, Peleg hurried him over the side, and both dropt into the
hands at the windlass, who roared forth some sort of a chorus about the girls
screaming gull flew overhead; the two hulls wildly rolled; we gave three
heavy-hearted cheers, and blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic.
already involved in the matter, he insensibly strives to cover up his
--but never mind, never mind --it's all one, all in the family too; --sharp
     See if you can find 'em now, will ye?  Find who?  Morning to ye!  morning

spoken of, a tall, new-landed mariner, encountered in New Bedford at the inn.

     Yes, I thought I did see four or five men; but it was too dim to be sure.
.. <p 105 >
absolute dictator of it, so soon as the ship sailed out upon the open sea.
into the cold malicious waves, who should I see
fearfulness upon the man, who in mid-winter just landed from a four years'

standing at her helm but Bulkington!  I looked with sympathetic awe and
tempestuous term.  The land seemed scorching to his feet.  Wonderfullest
.. <p 98 >
and better, and was expected aboard every day; meantime, the two Captains,
the leeward land.  The port would fain give succor; the port is pitiful; in
the port is safety, comfort, hearthstone, supper, warm blankets, friends,
in which some thousands of his hard earned dollars were invested; a ship, in
afore breakfast?  He's cracked, Queequeg, said I, come on.  Holloa!
land, though it but graze the keel, would make her shudder through and
things are ever the unmentionable; deep memories yield no epitaphs; this
Oceans, and would prefer not to be detained.  Ye be, be ye?  Coming back
Queequeg, with the most unaccountable glances.  Elijah, said I, you will
peril; her only friend her bitterest foe!  Know ye, now, Bulkington?
aware of that, said elijah, slowly and wonderingly looking from me to
Elijah, that I consider you a little impertinent?  No, no, no; I wasn't
independence of her sea; while the wildest winds of heaven and earth
conspire to cast her on the treacherous, slavish shore?  But as in landlessness
little, in the uncertain twilight, strangely peering from Queequeg to me.  It
it to perish in that howling infinite, than be ingloriously dashed upon the
     It was nearly six o'clock, but only grey

heart, take heart, O Bulkington!  Bear thee grimly, demigod!  Up from the spray
of thy ocean-perishing --straight up, leaps thy apotheosis!
a very early start.
Starbuck; it'll spoil.  Be careful with the butter --twenty cents the pound it
Meantime, overseeing the other part of the ship, Captain Peleg
But when a man suspects any wrong, it sometimes happens that if he be
in this business of whaling; and as this business of whaling has somehow come
every fresh arrival, down went his mark opposite that article upon the paper.
so long a voyage, without once laying my eyes on the man who was to be the
pursuit; therefore, I am all anxiety to convince ye, ye landsmen, of the
an offing, that the two pilots were needed no longer.  The stout sail-boat
his ship.  To these questions they would answer, that he was getting better
the business of whaling is not accounted on a level with what are called the
liberal professions.  If a stranger were introduced into any miscellaneous
about Captain Ahab, and how he was, and when he was going to come on board
and then concluded by roaring back into his wigwam.  During these days of
emulation of the naval officers he should append the initials S. W.  F. (Sperm
at the men down the hatchways, roaring up to the riggers at the mast-head,
pre-eminently presuming and ridiculous.  Doubtless one leading reason why the
through.  With all her might she crowds all sail off shore; in so doing,
vocation amounts to a butchering sort of business; and that when actively
     Every once and a while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den, roaring

And as for the matter of the alleged uncleanliness of our business, ye shall
have been all Martial Commanders whom the world invariably delights to honor.
soon be initiated into certain facts hitherto pretty generally unknown, and
which, upon the whole, will triumphantly plant the sperm whale-ship at least
.. <p 96 >
Bildad, he carried about with him a long list of the articles needed, and at
comparable to the unspeakable carrion of those battle-fields from which so
many soldiers return to drink in all ladies' plaudits?  And if the
day, with a long oil-ladle in one hand, and a still longer whaling lance in
a ship in which her beloved brother Bildad was concerned, and in which she
profession; let me assure ye that many a veteran who has freely marched up to
tail, fanning into eddies the air over his head.  For what are the
world declines honoring us whalemen, is this: they think that, at best, our
would sink the ship before the anchor could be got up; involuntarily I paused
yes, I can.  As for Peleg himself, he took it more like a philosopher; but

     and
     pay to her whalemen in bounties upwards of 1,000,000
at times affected, and in some cases seemed well nigh to overbalance all the
his hardy sobriety and fortitude, there were certain qualities in him which
incline him to superstition; but to that sort of superstition, which in some
organizations seems rather to spring, somehow, from intelligence than from
rest.  Uncommonly conscientious for a seaman, and endued with a deep natural
reverence, the wild watery loneliness of his life did therefore strongly
telling pantomime of action, and not a tame chapter of sounds.  Yet, for all
still more from the original ruggedness of his nature, and open him still
through life.  A staid, steadfast man, whose life for the most part was a
for long ages to come, and to endure always, as now; for be it Polar snow or
fit; and closely wrapped up in it, and embalmed with inner health and
starbuck, who is not afraid of a whale.  by this, he seemed to mean, not only
that the most reliable and useful courage was that which arises from the fair
means ill-looking; quite the contrary.  His pure tight skin was an excellent
bodily blight.  It was merely the condensation of the man.  He was by no
arid summers had he seen; those summers had dried up all his physical
times these things bent the welded iron of his soul, much more did his
ale.  He must have been born in some time of general drought and famine, or
.. <p 112 >
that word careful precisely means when used by a man like Stubb, or almost
any other whale hunter.  Starbuck was no crusader after perils; in him
earnest man, and though born on an icy coast, seemed well adapted to endure
at hand upon all mortally practical occasions.  Besides, he thought, perhaps,
that in this business of whaling, courage was one of the great staple outfits
of the ship, like her beef and her bread, and not to be foolishly wasted.
Starbuck, a native of Nantucket, and a Quaker by descent.  He was a long,
persisting in fighting a fish that too much persisted in fighting him.  For,
thought Starbuck, I am here in this critical ocean to kill whales for my
     The chief mate of the Pequod was

the bottomless deeps, could he find the torn limbs of his brother?  With
memories like these in him, and, moreover, given to a certain
.. < chapter xxvi 26  KNIGHTS AND SQUIRES >
.. <p 111 >
torrid sun, like a patent chronometer, his interior vitality was warranted to
experiences and remembrances as he had; it was not in nature that these
     his totality.  But the only thing to be considered here, is this --what kind
suitable circumstances, would break out from its confinement, and burn all his
courage up.  And brave as he might be, it was that sort of bravery chiefly,
upon one of those fast days for which his state is famous.  Only some thirty

     a mature man who uses hair-oil, unless medicinally, that man has probably got
spiritual terrors, which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of
and unhorse you with a split helmet every time.  The whale has no famous

have the heart to write it; for it is a thing most sorrowful, nay shocking,
to expose the fall of valor in the soul.  Men may seem detestable as joint
stock-companies and nations; knaves,
fellow who anoints his hair, and palpably smells of that anointing.  In truth,
knows?  Certain I am, however, that a king's head is solemnly oiled at his
man, in the ideal, is so noble and so sparkling, such a grand and glowing
queens, even modern ones, a certain curious process of seasoning them for
to throw their costliest robes.  That immaculate manliness we feel within
.. <p 111 >
facts, an advocate who should wholly suppress a not unreasonable
of a valor-ruined man.  Nor can piety itself, at such a shameful sight,
     In behalf of the dignity of whaling, I

abounding dignity which has no robed investiture.  Thou shalt see it shining
in the arm that wields a pick or drives a spike; that democratic dignity
visible in some intrepid men, which, while generally abiding firm in the
.. < chapter xxv 27  POSTSCRIPT >
.. <p 110 >
castaways, I shall hereafter ascribe high qualities, though dark; weave round
.. <p 110n. >
See subsequent chapters for something more on this head.
among them all, shall at times lift himself to the exalted mounts; if I shall
touch that workman's arm with some ethereal light; if I shall spread a
rainbow over his disastrous set of sun; then against all mortal critics bear
in my desk, then here I prospectively ascribe all the honor and the glory to
not be unreasonably ambitious of; if hereafter I shall do anything that,
boasted of taking as many walled towns.  And, as for me, if, by any
account that man more honorable than that great captain of antiquity who
pearl; Thou who didst clothe with doubly hammered leaves of finest gold, the
stumped and paupered arm of old Cervantes; Thou who didst pick up Andrew
it, since you cite it; but, say what you will, there is no real dignity in
thunder him higher than a throne!  Thou who, in all Thy mighty, earthly
marchings, ever cullest Thy selectest champions from the kingly commons; bear
coast, were the most conspicuous object in the cymballed procession.  Grant
Oh, that's only nominal!  The whale himself has never figured in any grand
.. <p 110 >
     Whaling not respectable?  Whaling is imperial!  By old English statutory

was a native of Cape Cod; and hence, according to local usage, was called a
chapters to, these men accounted unworthy of being set down in the ship's
Good again; but then all confess that somehow whaling is not respectable.
--this day darting the barbed iron from one side of the world to the other.
heathenish sharked waters, and by the beaches of unrecorded, javelin islands,
engaged for the year.  Good-humored, easy, and careless, he presided over his
was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized, and with such terrible
     blood in their veins?  They have something better than royal blood there.

Norwegian whale-hunter of those times!  And who pronounced our glowing eulogy
Your Krusensterns; but I say that scores of anonymous Captains have sailed
unpitying lance coolly and off-handedly, as a whistling tinker his hammer.
account of our Leviathan?  Who but mighty Job!  And who composed the first
     famous author, and whaling no famous chronicler?  Who wrote the first
fire salutes to the honor and glory of the whale-ship, which originally showed
telling.  Whether he ever thought of it at all, might be a question; but, if
he ever did chance to cast his mind that way after a comfortable dinner, no

tumble aloft, and bestir themselves there, about something which he would find
out when he obeyed the order, and not sooner.  What, perhaps, with other
and european men-of-war now peacefully ride in once savage harbors, let them
whale-boat as if the most deadly encounter were but a dinner, and his crew
ground with their packs; what helped to bring about that almost impious
connected with it, then am I ready to shiver fifty lances with you there,
which had no chart, where no Cook or Vancouver had ever sailed.  If American
which, on all hands, radiates without end from God; Himself!  The great God
missionaries to their first destinations.  If that double-bolted land, Japan,
an anchor in their waters.  The uncounted isles of all Polynesia confess the
.. <p 109 >
reach of his hand; and, whenever he turned in, he smoked them all out in
succession, lighting one from the other to the end of the chapter; then
Australian settlement, the emigrants were several times saved
a Dutchman, all other ships long shunned those shores as pestiferously
I say this continual smoking must have been one cause, at least, of his
peculiar disposition; for every one knows that this earthly air, whether
ashore or afloat, is terribly infected with the nameless miseries of the
enlightened world by the whaleman.  After its first blunder-born discovery by
some people go about with a camphorated handkerchief to their mouths; so,
remarkable in themselves, and so continuously momentous in their sequential
Spain, and the establishment of the eternal democracy in those parts.  That
the jealous policy of the Spanish crown, touching those colonies; and, if
pugnacious concerning whales, who somehow seemed to think that the great
common log.  Ah, the world!  Oh, the world!  Until the whale fishery rounded
was a sort of point of honor with him, to destroy them whenever encountered.
influence, which within the last sixty years has operated more potentially
crisis of the chase, toiling away, calm and collected as a journeyman joiner
of any possible danger from encountering them; that in his poor opinion, the
with the burden of life in a world full of grave peddlers, all bowed to the
requiring only a little circumvention and some small application of time and
     dollars; and every year importing into our harbors a well reaped harvest of 00847,000,000 dollars.  How comes all this, if there be not something puissant in
death into an easy chair.  What he thought of death itself, there is no
fish for the fun of it; and a three years' voyage round Cape Horn was only a
jolly joke that lasted that length of time.  As a carpenter's nails are
an enraged and mighty man.  But were the coming narrative to reveal, in any
his short, black little pipe was one of the regular features of his face.  You
and least known parts of the earth.  She has explored seas and archipelagoes
long.  They called him King-Post on board of the Pequod; because, in form,
he could be well likened to the short, square timber known by that name in
.. <p 108 >
inserted in it, served to brace the ship against the icy concussions of those
battering seas.  Now these three mates --Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask, were
likewise, against all mortal tribulations, Stubb's tobacco smoke might have
momentous men.  They it was who by universal prescription commanded three of
the Pequod's boats as headsmen.  In that grand order of battle in which
business of whaling.  One way and another, it has begotten events so
these three headsmen were as captains of companies.  Or, being armed with
their long keen whaling spears, they were as a picked trio of lancers; even
Cape-Cod-man.  A happy-go-lucky; neither craven nor valiant; taking perils as
     When close to the whale, in the very death-lock of the fight, he handled his
accompanied by his boat-steerer or harpooneer, who in certain conjunctures
provides him with a fresh lance, when the former one has been badly twisted,
or elbowed in the assault; and moreover, as there generally subsists between
the two, a close intimacy and friendliness; it is therefore but meet, that in
this place we set down who the Pequod's harpooneers were, and to what

all the rest of the banded whalemen in the world; sail a navy of upwards of
was Tashtego, an unmixed Indian from Gay Head, the most westerly promontory of
     pounds?  And lastly, how comes it that we whalemen of America now outnumber

generic name of Gay-Headers.  Tashtego's long, lean, sable hair, his high
many of her most daring harpooneers.  In the fishery, they usually go by the
wondrous whale was but a species of magnified mouse, or at least water-rat,
would almost as soon have expected him to turn out of his bunk without his
.. <p 118 >
April and May, trip home to the wintry, misanthropic woods; even the barest,
Indian to be a son of the Prince of the Powers of the Air.  Tashtego was Stubb
coal-black
little respond to the playful allurings of that girlish air.  More than once
did he put forth the faint blossom of a look, which, in any other man, would
ruggedest, most thunder-cloven old oak will at least send forth some few green
persuasiveness of the pleasant, holiday weather we came to, seemed gradually
layer were piled upon his brow, as ever all clouds choose the loftiest peaks
now; and thus chase away, for that one interval, the clouds that layer upon
so that there was little or nothing, out of himself, to employ or excite Ahab,
Pequod was only making a passage now; not regularly cruising; nearly all
spring, which, at sea, almost perpetually reigns on the threshold of the
eternal August of the Tropic.  The warmly cool, clear, ringing, perfumed,
last sunny deck, he seemed as unnecessary there as another mast.  But the
heaped up --flaked up, with rose-water snow.  The starred and stately nights
seemed haughty dames in jewelled velvets, nursing at home in lonely pride, the
memory of their absent conquering Earls, the golden helmeted suns!  For
sleeping man, 'twas hard to choose between such winsome days and such
seducing nights.  But all the witcheries of that unwaning weather did not
became still less and less a recluse; as if, when the ship had sailed from
sprouts, to welcome such glad-hearted visitants; so Ahab did, in the end, a
memory shot her crystals as the clear ice most forms of noiseless twilights.
deck.  As the sky grew less gloomy; indeed, began to grow a little genial, he
long, from his first visit in the air, he withdrew into his cabin.  But after
has to do with aught that looks like death.  among sea-commanders, the old
face; in all the nameless regal overbearing dignity of some mighty woe.  Ere
.. <p 122 >
the open air, that truly speaking, his visits were more to the cabin, than
from, the cabin to the planks.  It feels like going down into one's tomb,
     one arm elevated, and holding by a shroud; Captain Ahab stood erect, looking
this narrow scuttle, to go to my grave-dug berth.  So, almost every
to charm him from his mood.  For, as when the red-cheeked, dancing girls,

about half an inch or so, into the plank.  His bone leg steadied in that hole;
mast without coming home for it.  he has a quiver of 'em.  I was struck with
bone of the sperm whale's jaw.  Aye, he was dismasted off Japan, said the
come to me that this ivory leg had at sea been fashioned from the polished
their slumbering shipmates; when this sort of steady quietude would begin to
prevail, habitually, the silent steersman would watch the cabin-scuttle; and
few moments I hardly noted that not a little of this overbearing grimness was
muttered --then, whoever should do that last office for the dead, would find a
like these, he usually abstained from patrolling the quarter-deck; because to
Ahab should be tranquilly laid out --which might hardly come to pass, so he
twenty-four hours, when the watches of the night were set, and the band on
from the cabin with orders so sudden and peremptory, that after all it was
upon the soul, especially when the still mild hours of eve came on; then,
pace he was measuring the ship from taffrail to mainmast, Stubb, the odd
Nevertheless, the old sea-traditions, the immemorial credulities, popularly
before sailed out of Nantucket, had never ere this laid eye upon wild Ahab.
then, no one could say nay; but there might be some way of muffling the
noise; hinting something indistinctly and hesitatingly about a globe of tow,
by what a grey Manxman insinuated, an old sepulchral man, who, having never
elemental strife at sea.  Yet, this wild hint seemed inferentially negatived,
wad me that fashion?  But go thy ways; I had forgot.  Below to thy nightly
grave; where such as ye sleep between shrouds, to use ye to the filling one
allusion was made to it, especially by the mates.  But once Tashtego's
leaving the tree still greenly alive, but branded.  Whether that mark was born
moment; then said excitedly, I am not used to be spoken to that way, sir;
.. <p 121 >
teeth, and violently moving away, as if to avoid some passionate temptation.
straight, lofty trunk of a great tree, when the upper lightning
mould, like Cellini's cast Perseus.  Threading its way out from among his grey
high, broad form, seemed made of solid bronze, and shaped in an unalterable
nor of the recovery from any.  He looked like a man cut away from the stake,
him with such overbearing terrors in his aspect, that Stubb involuntarily
retreated.  I was never served so before without giving a hard blow for it,
muttered Stubb, as he found himself descending the cabin-scuttle.
his quarter-deck.  There seemed no sign of common bodily illness about him,
melancholy rapidity, that as I mounted to the deck at the call of the forenoon
its intolerable weather behind us.  It was one of those less lowering, but
latitude which we sailed, gradually leaving that merciless winter, and all
her harbor, for a space we had biting Polar weather, though all the time
time I ever did pray.  It's queer; very queer; and he's queer too; aye,
take him fore and aft, he's about the queerest old man Stubb ever sailed
was on him too deep for common regardings; and as with heavy, lumber-like
there's something on his mind, as sure as there must be something on a deck
when it cracks.  He aint in his bed now, either, more than three hours out of
Vineyarder, a Cape man.  Now, it being Christmas when the ship shot from out
cheerfulness in every presentment of the voyage.  Three better, more likely
clothes all rumpled and tumbled, and the sheets down at the foot, and the
coverlid almost tied into knots, and the pillow a sort of frightful hot, as
though a baked brick had been on it?  A hot old man!  I guess he's got what
some folks ashore call a conscience; it's a kind of Tic-Dolly-row they say
calculated to allay these colorless misgivings, and induce confidence and
fierce uniqueness of the very nature of that wild Scandinavian vocation in
the after hold for, every night, as Dough-Boy tells me he suspects; what's
that for, I should like to know?  Who's made appointments with him in the hold?
acquainted with, still I ascribed this --and rightly ascribed it --to the
.. <p 120 >
against all warrantry to
--which I felt, yet whenever I came to look about me in the ship, it seemed
about the first thing babies do, and that's a sort of queer, too.  Damn me,
own.  Yet now, federated along one keel, what a set these Isolatoes were!  An
but all things are queer, come to think of 'em.  But that's against my
principles.  Think not, is my eleventh commandment; and sleep when you can,
is my twelfth -- So here goes again.  But how's that?  didn't he call me a dog?
But poorly could I withstand them, much as in other moods I was almost ready
heightened at times by the ragged Elijah's diabolical incoherences uninvitedly
top of that!  He might as well have kicked me, and done with it.  Maybe he
the seclusion of the sea, became almost a perturbation.  This was strangely
plain they but commanded vicariously.  Yes, their supreme lord and dictator
dreams would have been of the crunching teeth of sharks.  But once, the mood
each other at the watches, and for aught that could be seen to the contrary,
of turned me wrong side out.  By the Lord, I must have been dreaming, though
     For several days after leaving Nantucket,

to stash it; so here goes to hammock again; and in the morning, I'll see how
this plaguey juggling thinks over by day-light.
.. < chapter xxviii 11  AHAB >
.. <p 119 >
hero there!
angels, and beat his tambourine in glory; called a coward here, hailed a
while leaning over the bulwarks; and then, as had been usual with him of
nearly all the officers are.  Herein it is the same with the American whale
long see him, beating his tambourine; prelusive of the eternal time, when
stool on the weather side of the deck, he sat and smoked.  In old Norse times,
the thrones of the sea-loving Danish kings were fabricated, saith tradition,
before.  Poor Alabama boy!  On the grim Pequod's forecastle, ye shall ere
tripod of bones, without bethinking him of the royalty it symbolized?  For a
.. <p 119 >
Anacharsis Clootz deputation from all the
in quick and constant puffs, which blew back again into his face.  How now,
he soliloquized at last, withdrawing the tube, this smoking no longer
soothes.  Oh, my pipe!  hard must it go with me if thy charm be gone!  Here
all the pomp of six feet five in his socks.  There was a corporeal humility
continent of men, but each Isolato living on a separate continent of his
fullest of trouble.  What business have I with this pipe?  This thing that is
his ears were two golden hoops, so large that the sailors called them
meant for sereneness, to send up mild white vapors among mild white hairs,
not among torn iron-grey locks like mine.  I'll smoke no more-- He tossed the
still lighted pipe into the sea.  The fire hissed in the waves; the same
Islanders seem to make the best whalemen.  They were nearly all Islanders in
Greenland whalers sailing out of Hull or London, put in at the Shetland
crews from the hardy peasants of those rocky shores.  In like manner, the
Railroads.  The same, I say, because in all these cases the native American
late, calling a sailor of the watch, he sent him below for his ivory stool,
beside him.  As for the residue of the Pequod's company, be it said, that at
queer dream, King-Post, I never had.  You know the old man's ivory leg, well
Ahasuerus Daggoo, was the Squire of little Flask, who looked like a chess-man
pyramid, and I, like a blazing fool, kept kicking at it.  But what was still
whiffs, as if, like the dying whale, my final jets were the strongest and
all his barbaric virtues, and erect as a giraffe, moved about the decks in
Africa, Nantucket, and the pagan harbors most frequented by whalemen; and
row?  It's not a real leg, only a false leg."  And there's a mighty difference
was not much of an insult, that kick from ahab.  "Why," thinks I,"what's the
bay on his native coast.  And never having been anywhere in the world but in
living member --that makes the living insult, my little man.  And thinks I to
myself all the while, mind, while I was stubbing my silly toes against that
with.  How he flashed at me! --his eyes like powder-pans!  is he mad?  Anyway
would have been the reverberating crack and din of that bony step, that their
world, if only to fall right asleep.  And now that I think of it, that's
     But this insult is whittled down to a point only."  But now comes the
argument, I take the good old fashioned ground that the whale is a fish, and
call upon holy Jonah to back me.  This fundamental thing settled, the next
me by the shoulders, and slews me round.  "What are you 'bout?" says he.  Slid!
     Charley profanely hinted they were humbug.  Be it known that, waiving all

Next: how shall we define the whale, by his obvious externals, so as
conspicuously to label him for all time to come?  To be short, then, a whale
is a spouting fish with a horizontal tail.  There you have him.
Coffin, of Nantucket, both messmates of mine in a certain voyage, and they
point is, in what internal respect does the whale differ from other fish.
amphibious.  but the last term of the definition is still more cogent, as
meritoque.  I submitted all this to my friends Simeon Macey and Charley
incomplete indications but serve to torture us naturalists.  Thus speak of
intrantem feminam mammis lactantem, and finally, ex lege naturae jure
invariably assumes a horizontal position.  By the above definition of what a
pyramid, a sort of badger-haired old merman, with a hump on his back, takes
bilocular heart, their lungs, their movable eyelids, their hollow ears, penem
.. <p 132 >
grounds upon which Linnaeus would fain have banished
regarded as alien.  Hence, all the smaller, spouting,
,
, Linnaeus declares, I hereby separate the whales
Now, then, come the grand divisions of the entire whale host.  First:
According to magnitude I divide the whales into three primary BOOKS
System of Nature, A. D.
and large.  I. The FOLIO WHALE; II.  the OCTAVO WHALE;  III.  the DUODECIMO
WHALE.  As the type of the FOLIO I present the Sperm Whale; of the
visible hands; I am in earnest; and I will try.  There are some
here include the following chapters: -- I. The Sperm Whale; II.  the Right
libraries and sailed through oceans; I have had to do with whales with these
What am I that I should essay to hook the nose of this leviathan!  The awful
     I am the architect, not the builder.  But it is a ponderous task; no ordinary

matter almost indispensable to a thorough appreciative understanding of the
known as the Trumpa whale, and the Physeter whale, and the Anvil Headed whale,
be faulty.  I shall not pretend to a minute anatomical description of the
the Macrocephalus of the Long Words.  He is, without doubt, the largest
inhabitant of the globe; the most formidable of all whales to encounter; the
any human thing supposed to be complete, must for that very reason infallibly
I hereupon offer my own poor endeavors.  I promise nothing complete; because
obtained.  All his peculiarities will, in many other places, be enlarged upon.
subsequent laborers.  As no better man advances to take this matter in hand,
all other hunted whales, his is an unwritten life.  Now the various species of
original matter touching the sperm whale to be found in their volumes is
unknown in his own proper individuality, and when his oil was only
.. <p 131 >
walrus spouts much like a whale, but the walrus is not a fish, because he is
whale is, I do by no means exclude from the leviathanic brotherhood any sea
before you, and at the same time, in the remotest degree succeed in the
only two books in being which at all pretend to put the living sperm whale
those times, also, spermaceti was exceedingly scarce, not being used for
Greenland whale is deposed, --the great sperm whale now reigneth!  There are
days, will satisfy you that the Greenland whale, without one rival, was to
Reference to nearly all the leviathanic allusions in the great poets of past
his claims, and the profound ignorance which, till some seventy years back,
by any means the largest of the whales.  Yet, owing to the long priority of
known, its original name was still retained by the dealers; no doubt to
enhance its value by a notion so strangely significant of its scarcity.  And
so the appellation must at last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from
which this spermaceti was really derived.  BOOK I. ( Folio), CHAPTER II.
harpooneer and whaleman.  I mean Captain Scoresby.  On the separate subject of
Owen ever saw living whales; and but one of them was a real professional
Cuvier; John Hunter; Owen; Scoresby; Beale; Bennett; J. Ross Browne; the
Brisson; Marten; Lacepede; Bonneterre; Desmarest; Baron Cuvier; Frederick
Gesner; Ray; Linnaeus; Rondeletius; Willoughby; Green; Artedi; Sibbald;
indiscriminately designated by all the following titles: The Whale; the
Greenland Whale; the Black Whale; the Great Whale; the True Whale; the Right
whale.  there is a deal of obscurity concerning the identity of the species
thus multitudinously baptized.  What then is the whale, which I include in
Authors of the Bible; Aristotle; Pliny; Aldrovandi; Sir Thomas Browne;
     who have at large or in little, written of the whale.  Run over a few: --The
Ordinaire of the French whalemen; the Growlands Walfish of the Swedes.  It is
the whale which for more than two centuries past has been hunted by the Dutch
and English in the Arctic seas; it is the whale which the American fishermen

a plenty; and so in some small degree, with cetology, or the science of
never speak to him, whatever he says.  Halloa!  what's that he shouts?  Hark!
whale of the English and the right whale of the Americans.  But they precisely
.. <p 130 >
in my hammock!  Now, what do you think of that dream, Flask?  I don't know;
subdivisions based upon the most inconclusive differences, that some
.  Unfitness to pursue our
whale will be elsewhere treated of at some length, with reference to
elucidating the sperm whale.  BOOK I. ( Folio), CHAPTER III. ( Fin-Back).
(sperm whale), says Surgeon Beale, A. D.
.  It is not my intention, were it in my power, to enter
commonly the whale whose distant jet is so often descried by passengers
crossing the Atlantic, in the New York
Listen to what the best and latest authorities have laid down.  No branch of
packet-tracks.  In the length he attains, and in his baleen, the Fin-back
resembles the right whale, but is of a less portly girth, and a lighter
classification of the constituents of a chaos, nothing less is here essayed.
CHAPTER I. ( Sperm Whale). --This whale, among the English of old vaguely
distinguishing feature, the fin, from which he derives his name, is often a
conspicuous object.  this fin is some three or four feet long, growing
vertically from the hinder part of the back, of an angular shape, and with a
very sharp pointed end.  Even if not the slightest other part of the creature
barnacled hulls of the leviathan; at the outset it is but well to attend to a
     that come to pass; ere the Pequod's weedy hull rolls side by side with the
spherical ripples, and this gnomon-like fin stands up and casts shadows upon
the wrinkled surface, it may well be supposed that the watery circle
surrounding it somewhat resembles a dial, with its style and wavy hour-lines

     Already we are boldly launched upon the
shy; always going solitary; unexpectedly rising to the surface in the
remotest and most sullen waters; his straight and single lofty jet rising

with the one then known in England as the Greenland or Right Whale.  It was
man; this leviathan seems the banished and unconquerable Cain of his race,
.. < chapter xxxii 6  CETOLOGY >
mouth, the Fin-Back is sometimes included with the right whale, among a
theoretic species denominated Whalebone whales, that is, whales with baleen.
.. <p 129 >
.. <p 129 >
varieties, most of which, however, are little known.  Broad-nosed whales and
beaked whales; pike-headed whales; bunched whales; under-jawed whales and
     Mast-head, there!  Look sharp, all of ye!  There are whales hereabouts!  If
with this appellative of Whalebone whales , it is of great importance to
mention, that however such a nomenclature may be convenient in facilitating

familiar to landsmen have not a flat, but a vertical, or up-and-down tail.
fin, or teeth; notwithstanding that those marked parts or features very
kept muttering it all the time, a sort of eating of his own gums like a
obviously seem better adapted to afford the basis for a regular system of
account kick back; for you can't help yourself, wise Stubb.  Don't you see
Remember what I say; be kicked by him; account his kicks honors; and on no
things whose peculiarities are indiscriminately dispersed among all sorts of
whales, without any regard to what may be the nature of their structure in
     your boast, Stubb, that ye were kicked by old Ahab, and made a wise man of.

but there again the similitude ceases.  And it is just the same with the other
full of marlinspikes, with the points out.  Says I, on second thoughts,"I
parts above mentioned.  In various sorts of whales, they form such irregular
great man, and with a beautiful ivory leg, Stubb.  It's an honor; I consider
     leg, didn't he?" "Yes, he did," says I. "Well then," says he, "wise Stubb,

anatomy --there, at least, we shall be able to hit the right classification.
kick?"  By the lord, Flask, I had no sooner said that, than he turned round
"Halloa," says I,"what's the matter now, old fellow?" "Look ye here," says
impossible correctly to classify the Greenland whale.  And if you descend
into the bowels of the various leviathans, why there you will not find
may possibly be conceived that, in the internal parts of the whale, in his
Cruising Grounds.  Some pretend to see a difference between the Greenland
guess I won't kick you, old fellow." "Wise Stubb," said he,"wise Stubb;" and
of the whales bodily, in their entire liberal volume, and boldly sort them
that way.  And this is the Bibliographical system here adopted; and it is the
only one that can possibly succeed, for it alone is practicable.  To proceed.
this same humpbacked whale and the Greenland whale, each of these has baleen;
clout --what do you think, I saw? --why thunder alive, man, his stern was stuck
into harbor.  He has a great pack on him like a peddler; or you might call
striking than his baleen?  Yet we have seen that by his baleen it is
.. <p 128 >
would seem, was popularly supposed to be derived from a creature identical
wondrous power and velocity in swimming, as to defy all present pursuit from
BOOK I. ( Folio), CHAPTER VI. ( Sulphur Bottom). -- Another retiring
known but his name.  I have seen him at a distance off Cape Horn.  Of a
retiring nature, he eludes both hunters and philosophers.  Though no coward,
of uncertain, fugitive, half-fabulous whales, which, as an American
system does not proceed, inasmuch as the Porpoise is the smallest of the
their forecastle appellations; for possibly such a list may be valuable to
His oil is much like that of the common porpoise.  Beyond the DUODECIMO, this
escaped from a felonious visit to a meal-bag.  A most mean and mealy aspect!
head, and the whole of his mouth, which makes him look as if he had just
whaleman, I know by reputation, but not personally.  I shall enumerate them by
incorporated into this System, according to his Folio, Octavo, or Duodecimo
separate colors, black above and white below.  The white comprises part of his
deep sable, yet a boundary line, distinct as the mark in a ship's hull, called
the Coppered Whale; the Elephant Whale; the Iceberg Whale; the Quog Whale;
the Blue Whale; etc.  From Icelandic, Dutch, and old English authorities,
there might be quoted other lists of uncertain whales, blessed with all
In shape, he differs in some degree from the Huzza Porpoise, being of a less
the Pacific, so far as it is known.  The only English name, by which he has
signifying nothing.  Finally: It was stated at the outset, that this system
whales, shall hereafter be caught and marked, then he can readily be
( Mealy-mouthed Porpoise).  The largest kind of Porpoise; and only found in
Provoke him, and he will buckle to a shark.  I have lowered for him many
still standing upon the top of the uncompleted tower.  For small erections may
be finished by their first architects; grand ones, true ones, ever leave the
miniature.  BOOK III. ( Duodecimo), CHAPTER II. ( Algerine Porpoise). -- A
a chance, watch him; and you will then see the great Sperm whale himself in
whales.  Above, you have all the Leviathans of note.  But there are a rabble
Sailors put it on their hones.  Porpoise meat is good eating, you know.  It
.. <p 141 >
     are accounted a lucky omen.  If you yourself can withstand three cheers at
Dugongs (Pig-fish and Sow-fish of the Coffins of Nantucket) are included by
employs it for a rake in turning over the bottom of the sea for food.  Charley
many naturalists among the whales.  But as these pig-fish are a nosy,

billows to windward.  They are the lads that always live before the wind.  They
recognised him for one.  He is of moderate octavo size, varying from fifteen
Fourth-of-July crowd.  Their appearance is generally hailed with delight by

Why this book of whales is not denominated the Quarto is very plain.  Because,
but a lengthened tusk, growing out from the jaw in a line a little depressed
order, nevertheless retain a proportionate likeness to them in figure, yet
the bookbinder's Quarto volume in its diminished form does not preserve the
shape of the Folio volume, but the Octavo volume does.
are more than one sort of porpoises, and something must be done to distinguish
found almost all over the globe.  The name is of my own bestowal; for there
( Duodecimo), CHAPTER I ( Huzza Porpoise). -- This is the common porpoise
Duodecimoes are infallibly whales, by the terms of my definition of what a
whale-craft, this seems as good a place as any to set down a little domestic
peculiarity on ship-board, arising from the existence of the harpooneer class
always conveys an idea of hugeness.  But the creatures set down above as
whale-fleet.  The large importance attached to the harpooneer's vocation is
evinced by the fact, that originally in the old Dutch Fishery, two centuries
Porpoise.  To those who have not chanced specially to study the subject, it

not wholly lodged in the person now called the captain, but was divided
between him and an officer called the Specksynder.  Literally this word means
BOOK III. ( Duodecimo).  DUODECIMOES. --These include the smaller whales.  I.
     is famous for his tail, which he uses for a ferule in thrashing his foes.  He
general management of the vessel: while over the whale-hunting department
burn unsavory tallow instead of odorous wax.  Though their blubber is very
the British Greenland Fishery, under the corrupted title of Specksioneer,
this old Dutch official is still retained, but his former dignity is sadly

Sharks included.  BOOK II. ( Octavo), CHAPTER V. ( Thrasher). --This gentleman
good conduct of the harpooneers the success of a whaling voyage largely
frugal housekeepers, in the absence of company, and quite alone by themselves,
officer in the boat, but under certain circumstances (night watches on a
whaling ground) the command of the ship's deck is also his; therefore the
indistinctness.  For we are all killers, on land and on sea; Bonapartes and
.. <p 140 >
professional superior; though always, by them, familiarly regarded as their
social equal.  Now, the grand distinction drawn between officer and man at
sea, is this--the first lives aft, the last forward.  Hence, in whale-ships
Feegee fish.  He sometimes takes the great Folio whales by the lip, and hangs
so, too, in most of the American whalers the harpooneers are lodged in the
is well known, and from the circumstance that the inner angles of his lips
oblong spots of black.  His oil is very superior, clear and fine; but there
leopard-like look, being of a milk-white ground color, dotted with round and
on bended knees, did likewise present to her highness another horn, pertaining
the castle at Windsor.  An Irish author avers that the Earl of Leicester,
gallantly wave her jewelled hand to him from a window of Greenwich Palace, as
together with their common vigilance, intrepidity, and hard work; though all
these things do in some cases tend to beget a less rigorous discipline than in
horns of the male deer are manufactured into hartshorn.  Originally it was in
distilled to a volatile salts for fainting ladies, the same way that the
nature.  From certain cloistered old authors I have gathered that this same
folder in reading pamphlets.  The Narwhale I have heard called the Tusked
the punctilious externals, at least, of the quarter-deck are seldom materially
relaxed, and in no instance done away.  Indeed, many are the Nantucket ships
--however that may be --it would certainly be very convenient to him for a
But you cannot prove either of these surmises to be correct.  My own opinion
outward homage as if he wore the imperial purple, and not the shabbiest of
pilot-cloth.  And though of all men the moody captain of the Pequod was the
Coffin said it was used for an ice-piercer; for the Narwhale, rising to the
contemptible set, mostly lurking in the mouths of rivers, and feeding on wet
man to remove the shoes from his feet ere stepping upon the quarter-deck; and
though there were times when, owing to peculiar circumstances connected with
from the horizontal.  But it is only found on the sinister side, which has an
blowing, has furnished a proverb to landsmen, is so well known a denizen of
exceed ten, and even attain to fifteen feet.  Strictly speaking, this horn is
perhaps, will it fail to be eventually perceived, that behind those forms and
usages, as it were, he sometimes masked himself; incidentally making use of
them for other and more private ends than they were legitimately intended to
--Another instance of a curiously named whale, so named I suppose from his
BOOK II. ( Octavo), CHAPTER III. ( Narwhale), that is, Nostril whale.
incarnate in an irresistible dictatorship.  For be a man's intellectual
superiority what it will, it can never assume the practical, available
supremacy over other men, without the aid of some sort of external arts and
and all its concerns, the Specksynder or Chief Harpooneer reigned supreme.  In
depends, and since in the American Fishery he is not only an important
hustings; and leaves the highest honors that this air can give, to those men
while the whales of this order, though smaller than those of the former
are curved upwards, he carries an everlasting Mephistophelean grin on his
after part of the ship.  That is to say, they take their meals in the
when extreme political superstitions invest them, that in some royal
instances even to idiot imbecility they have imparted potency.  But when, as
almost all whales.  So, call him the Hyena Whale, if you please.  His voracity
for all these fish, for generally they are the best.  Where any name happens
( Octavo), CHAPTER II. ( Black Fish). --I give the popular fishermen's names
then, the plebeian herds crouch abased before the tremendous centralization.
Nor, will the tragic dramatist who would depict mortal indomitableness in its
.. <p 138 >
in his art, as the one now alluded to.  But Ahab, my Captain, still moves
before me in all his Nantucket grimness and shagginess; and in this episode
touching Emperors and Kings, I must not conceal that I have only to do with
considerable
trappings and housings are denied me.  Oh, Ahab!  what shall be grand in thee,
it must needs be plucked at from the skies, and dived for in the deep, and
Sulphur Bottom!  I can say nothing more that is true of ye, nor can the oldest
who become famous more through their infinite inferiority to the choice hidden
I. ( Grampus). --Though this fish, whose loud sonorous breathing, or rather
     Narwhale; IV., the Thrasher; V., the Killer.  BOOK II. ( Octavo), CHAPTER

steward, thrusting his pale loaf-of-bread face from the cabin-scuttle,
announces dinner to his lord and master; who, sitting in the lee
     OCTAVOES.  These embrace the whales of middling magnitude, among which at
mutely reckoning the latitude on the smooth, medallion-shaped tablet,
reserved for that daily purpose on the upper part of his ivory leg.  From his

Nantucketer.  Thus ends BOOK I. ( Folio), and now begins BOOK II. ( octavo).
swings himself to the deck, and in an even, unexhilarated voice, saying,
whales; and have presented them with their passports to quit the kingdom of
least I have never seen him except in the remoter southern seas, and then
Tartarian tiles in some of his profounder divings.  He is seldom seen; at
few turns along the planks, and, after a grave peep into the binnacle, says,
suppose that he is seated, then Starbuck rouses from his quietude, takes a
whole book is but a draught --nay, but the draught of a draught.  Oh Time,
gentleman, with a brimstone belly, doubtless got by scraping along the
would not be here, and at once, perfected.  You cannot but plainly see that I
with some touch of pleasantness, Dinner, Mr. Stubb, and descends the

     But ere stepping into the cabin doorway below, he pauses, ships a new face
.. < chapter xxxv 2  THE MAST-HEAD >
.. <p 151 >
gloom!
shut up in the caved trunk of his body, there fed upon the sullen paws of its
most American whalemen the mast-heads are manned almost simultaneously with
that in due rotation with the other seamen my first mast-head came round.  In
sucking his own paws; so, in his inclement, howling old age, Ahab's soul,
Missouri.  And as when Spring and Summer had departed, that wild Logan of the
He lived in the world, as the last of the Grisly Bears lived in settled
otherwise than hungry, more or less.  For what he ate did not so much relieve
of the port, does she altogether relinquish the hope of capturing one whale
a permanent thing, residing in the open air.  Nor did they lose much hereby;
the vessel's leaving her port; even though she may have fifteen thousand
take it, that the earliest standers of mast-heads were the old Egyptians;
of the Pequod might more properly be said to have lived out of the cabin than
any time, permitted there.  So that, in real truth, the mates and harpooneers
In this one matter, Ahab seemed no exception to most American whale captains,
salt-sea warriors would rise and depart; to his credulous, fable-mongering
soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast, then Flask must bestir
vanity of glory: there's the insanity of life!  Besides, if it were so that
but a buckler.  in good time, though, to his great delight, the three
Island days, Queequeg, for one, must certainly have been guilty of some
for their lances and other weapons; and with which whetstones, at dinner,
stair-like formation of all four sides of those edifices; whereby, with
prodigious long upliftings of their legs, those old astronomers were wont to
palsy.  Nor did the whetstone which the harpooneers carried in their pockets,
.. <p 150 >
giants made or nourished.  But Queequeg, he had a mortal, barbaric smack of
stone pillar in the desert and spent the whole latter portion of
and superb a person.  But, doubtless, this noble savage fed strong and drank
mouthfuls he could keep up the vitality diffused through so broad, baronial,
the last person down at the dinner,
very ancient and interesting one, let us in some measure expatiate here.  I
Daggoo seated on the floor, for a bench would have brought his hearse-plumed
adjoining, and fearfully peep out at them through the blinds of its door,
demanded, he would escape from their clutches into his little pantry
iron, and bronze men; who, though well capable of facing out a stiff gale,
Commonly, after seeing the harpooneers furnished with all things they
bankrupt baker and a hospital nurse.  And what with the standing spectacle of
himself, the chances were Ahab had never so much as noticed it.  Least of all,
careless, now, who rules the decks below; whether Louis Philippe, Louis
Dough-Boy's memory by snatching him up bodily, and thrusting his head into a
towering main-mast in Baltimore, and like one of Hercules' pillars, his
in the first degree.  Had he helped himself at that table, doubtless, never
Tashtego had an ungentlemanly way of accelerating him by darting a fork at his
not lively about it, if he did not go with a nimble hop-skip-and-jump, then
was not to be driven from his place by fogs or frosts, rain, hail, or sleet;
appetites had Queequeg and Tashtego, that to fill out the vacancies made by
.. <p 149 >
the distracted decks upon which they gaze; however it may be surmised, that
their spirits penetrate through the thick haze of the future, and descry what
portentous
filled their bellies like Indian ships all day loading with spices.  Such
care-free license and ease, the almost frantic democracy of those inferior
that in truth it is not so, is plainly evinced by an item for which Obed
and nameless invisible domineerings of the captain's table, was the entire
steward.  And then the three harpooneers were bidden to the feast, they being
regularly launched in pursuit of the game, the people of that island erected
mates formed what may be called the first table in the Pequod's cabin.  After
capacity, all that sailor had to do, in order to obtain ample vengeance, was
any mere sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask's official
dinner-table of invited guests, that man's unchallenged power and dominion of
this custom has now become obsolete; turn we then to the one proper mast-head,
that of a whale-ship
banquet at Frankfort, where the German Emperor profoundly dines with the seven
Flask, have for ever departed from my stomach.  I am an officer; but, how I
seamen taking their regular turns (as at the helm), and relieving each other
manned to the last; and not till her skysail-poles sail in among the spires
meat as though receiving alms; and cut it tenderly; and a little started if,
against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck.  Therefore it was
himself, he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day; for it is
we cannot give these Babel builders priority over the Egyptians.  And that the
once sailed between the boots of the famous Colossus at old Rhodes.  There you
said to have gone by the board, in the dread gale of God's wrath; therefore,
waves.  The tranced ship indolently rolls; the drowsy trade winds blow;
is but a peg higher than Flask, happens to have but a small appetite, and
whaling life, a sublime uneventfulness invests you; you hear no news; read
no gazettes; extras with startling accounts of commonplaces never delude you
and Flask is the first man up.  Consider!  For hereby Flask's dinner was badly
securities; fall of stocks; are never troubled with the thought of what you
shall have for dinner --for all your meals for three years and more are snugly
stowed in casks, and your bill of fare is immutable.  In one of those southern
whalemen, on a long three or four years' voyage, as often happens, the sum of
the various hours you spend at the mast-head would amount to several entire
.. <p 148 >
him we have a remarkable instance of a dauntless stander-of-mast-heads; who
sadly destitute of anything approaching to a cosy inhabitiveness, or adapted
to breed a comfortable localness of feeling, such as pertains to a bed, a
did flask presume to help himself to butter.  Whether he thought the owners of
Vendome, stands with arms folded, some one hundred and fifty feet in the air;
most usual point of perch is the head of the t' gallant-mast, where you stand
upon two thin parallel sticks (almost peculiar to whalemen) called the t'
column marks that point of human grandeur beyond which few mortals will go.
presumed to help himself, this must have seemed to him tantamount to larceny
yet given that a hidden hero is there; for where there is smoke, must be
properly speaking the thickest watch-coat is no more of a house than the
himself was dumb.  What a relief it was to choking Stubb, when a rat made a
awful silence; and yet at table old Ahab forbade not conversation; only he
of its fleshly tabernacle, and cannot freely move about in it, nor even move
out of it, without running great risk of perishing (like an ignorant pilgrim
     Imperial Electors, so these cabin meals were somehow solemn meals, eaten in

shelf or chest of drawers in your body, and no more can you make a
descrying the game, gave notice to the ready-manned boats nigh the beach.  But
presence, in the character of Abjectus, or the Slave.  It is not the least
those enviable little tents or pulpits, called crow's-nests, in which the
every two hours.  In the serene weather of the tropics it is exceedingly
Ahab thereby motioned Starbuck's plate towards him, the mate received his
for the world they would have profaned that moment with the slightest
for the re-discovery of the Lost Icelandic Colonies of Old Greenland; in
this admirable volume, all standers of mast-heads are furnished with a
children before Ahab; and yet, in Ahab, there seemed not to lurk the smallest
Over his ivory-inlaid table, Ahab presided like a mute, maned sea-lion on the
inventor and patentee, and free from all ridiculous false delicacy, and
it the Sleet's crow's-nest, in honor of himself; he being the original
.. <p 147 >
after ourselves any other apparatus we may beget.  In shape, the Sleet's
among the strange things bred by the intense artificialness of sea-usages,
crow's-nest is something like a large tierce or pipe; it is open above,
however, where it is furnished with a movable side-screen to keep to windward
of your head in a hard gale.  Being fixed on the summit of the mast, you
Belshazzar's, for Belshazzar was not the greatest.  Who has but once dined
or side next the stern of the ship, is a comfortable seat, with a locker
underneath for umbrellas, comforters, and coats.  In front is a leather rack,
convenient closet of your watch-coat.  Concerning all this, it is much to be
Babylon; and to have been Belshazzar, not haughtily but courteously,
nest of his, he tells us that he always had a rifle with him (also fixed in
the rack), together with a powder flask and shot, for the purpose of popping
off the stray narwhales, or vagrant sea unicorns infesting those waters; for
you cannot successfully shoot at them from
difference?  A problem?  Perhaps not.  To have been Belshazzar, King of
ten to one, let those very officers the next moment go down to their customary
his friends, has tasted what it is to be Caesar.  It is a witchery of social
to describe, as he does, all the little detailed conveniences of his
but noiseless squall of a hornpipe right over the Grand Turk's head; and
treats us to a very scientific account of his experiments in this crow's-nest,
with a small compass he kept there for the purpose of counteracting the
you may carry your house aloft with you, in the shape of a watch-coat; but
your legs, as it were, swim the hugest monsters of the sea, even as ships
I take it very ill of him that he should so utterly ignore that case-bottle,
greatly admire and even love the brave, the honest, and learned Captain; yet
hand me yon top-maul.  While the mate was getting the hammer, Ahab, without
in that bird's nest within three or four perches of the pole.  But if we
speaking, was slowly rubbing the gold piece against the skirts of his jacket,
mast-headers have before now heard me give orders about a white whale.  Look
that it seemed the mechanical humming of the wheels of his vitality in him.
     and tightly, almost convulsively grasping it, addressed them thus: -- All ye
the hammer uplifted in one hand, exhibiting the gold with the other, and with
a high raised voice exclaiming: Whosoever of ye raises me a white-headed
the sun -- it is a sixteen dollar piece, men.  D'ye see it?  Mr. Starbuck,
whale with a wrinkled brow and a crooked jaw; whosoever of ye raises me that
white-headed whale, with three holes punctured in his starboard fluke --look

now half-revolving in his pivot-hole, with one hand reaching high up a shroud,
white whale, I say, resumed Ahab, as he threw down
and fiercely glad and approving, grew the countenance of the old man at every
     And what do ye next, men?  Lower away, and after him!  And what tune is
Daggoo, and Queequeg had looked on with even more intense interest and
hover.  And perhaps, at mid-day, in the fairest weather, with one
surprise than the rest, and at the mention of the wrinkled brow and crooked
jaw they had started as if each was separately touched by some specific

same that some call Moby Dick.  Moby Dick?  shouted Ahab.  Do ye know the
white water; if ye see but a bubble, sing out.  All this while Tashtego,
     Good!  cried Ahab, with a wild approval in his tones; observing the hearty

from the sea; by the sea, from the inscrutable tides of God.  But while this
too, Captain, cried Queequeg disjointedly, all twiske-tee betwisk, like
him--him-- faltering hard for a word, and screwing his hand round and round as
.. <p 159 >
a whale, men?  Sing out for him!  was the impulsive rejoinder from a score
spout is a big one, like a whole shock of wheat, and white as a pile of our
did not last long.  Vehemently pausing, he cried: -- What do ye do when ye see
among the men; till Stubb cautiously whispered to Flask, that Ahab must have
his eyes among the crew, started from his standpoint; and as though not a
white whale then, Tash?  Does he fan-tail a little curious, sir, before he
surprise, but at last seemed struck with a thought which somewhat explained
company were assembled, and with curious and not wholly unapprehensive faces,
aft, repeated Ahab.  Mast-heads, there!  come down!  When the entire ship's
     to send everybody aft.  Sir!  said the mate, astonished at an order seldom or

ocean at his feet for the visible image of that deep, blue, bottomless soul,
me; Moby Dick that brought me to this dead stump I stand on now.  Aye, aye,
     Suddenly he came to a halt by the bulwarks, and inserting his bone leg into
poor pegging
.. <p 161 >

imprecations he shouted out: Aye, aye!  and I'll chase him round Good Hope,
and round the horn, and round the norway maelstrom, and round perdition's
     the chick that's in him pecks the shell.  T'will soon be out.  The hours
here.  Perhaps they were; or perhaps there might have been shoals of them in
till he spouts black blood and rolls fin out.  What say ye, men, will ye
splice hands on it, now?  I think ye do look brave.  Aye, aye!  shouted the

inward mould of every outer movement.  D'ye mark him, Flask?  whispered Stubb;
to half sob and half shout.  God bless ye, men.  Steward!  go draw the great
their opera-glasses at home.  Why, thou monkey, said a harpooneer to one of
paced; so completely possessing him, indeed, that it all but seemed the
     could almost see that thought turn in him as he turned, and pace in him as he

short-sighted; what use, then, to strain the visual nerve?  They have left
in the way of the business we follow; but I came here to hunt whales, not my
and dented brow; there also, you would see still stranger foot-prints --the
.. <p 158 >
geological stones, with the peculiar mark of his walk.  Did you fixedly gaze,
planks so familiar to his tread, that they were all over dented, like
gentlemen, after the same meal, take a few turns in the garden.  Soon his
deck.  There most sea-captains usually walk at that hour, as country
after breakfast, Ahab, as was his wont, ascended the cabin-gangway to the
     ( enter Ahab: Then, all.) It
whispered Stubb, what's that for?  methinks it rings most vast, but hollow.

.. < chapter xxxvi 21  THE QUARTER-DECK >
men, disgusted with the carking cares of earth, and seeking sentiment in tar
seems blasphemous.  Hark ye yet again, --the little lower layer.  All visible
objects, man, are but as pasteboard masks.  But in each event --in the living
.. <p 157 >
furnishes an asylum for many romantic, melancholy, and absent-minded young
will strike, strike through
at all; and your identity comes back in horror.  Over Descartian vortices you
are these monitions at all unneeded.  For nowadays, the whale-fishery
wall?  To me, the white whale is that wall, shoved near to me.  Sometimes I
think there's naught beyond.  But 'tis enough.  He tasks me; he heaps me; I
and space; like Cranmer's sprinkled Pantheistic ashes, forming at last a
mood, thy spirit ebbs away to whence it came; becomes diffused through time
or be the white whale principal, I will wreak that hate upon him.  Talk not
to me of blasphemy, man; I'd strike the sun if it insulted me.  For could the
sun do that, then could I do the other; since there is ever a sort of fair
beautiful thing that eludes him; every dimly-discovered, uprising fin of some
he shouted with a terrific, loud, animal sob, like that of a heart-stricken
thine eye!  more intolerable than fiends' glarings is a doltish stare!  So,
so; thou reddenest and palest; my heat has melted thee to anger-glow.  But
.. <p 157 >
chase that white whale on both sides of land, and over all sides of earth,
at such a thought-engendering altitude, --how could I but lightly hold my
measure of grog.  But what's this long face about, Mr. Starbuck; wilt thou not
unworshipping things, that live; and seek, and give no reasons for the torrid
commander's vengeance.  How many barrels will thy vengeance yield thee even
souls they would rather not see whales than otherwise.  But all in vain; those
snorts to think of it.  Stand up amid the general hurricane, thy one tost
are so hopelessly lost to all honorable ambition, as that in their secret
blubber-hunters sweep over thee in vain.  Very often do the captains of such
hunt, then, the best lance out of all Nantucket, surely he will not hang back,
and blubber.  Childe Harold not unfrequently perches himself upon the
blindest instinct!  Madness!  To be enraged with a dumb thing, Captain Ahab,
leg over the top-sail yard, take a preliminary view of the watery pastures,
silence, then, that voices thee. ( aside) something shot from my dilated
nostrils, he has inhaled it in his lungs.  Starbuck now is mine; cannot
I might find there; then ascending a little way further, and throwing a lazy
Captain Ahab?  And he have one, two, tree --oh!  good many iron in him hide,
mate, Ahab did not hear his foreboding invocation; nor yet the low laugh
from the hold; nor yet the presaging vibrations of
meditativeness; and who offers to ship with the phaedon instead of Bowditch
the winds in the cordage; nor yet the hollow flap of the sails against the
eye open, and sing out every time.  And let me in this place movingly admonish
Let it go.  Look!  see yonder Turkish cheeks of spotted tawn -- living,
.. <p 156 >
before.  Ah, ye admonitions and warnings!  why stay ye not when ye come?  But
rather are ye predictions than warnings, ye shadows!  Yet not so much
predictions from without, as verifications of the foregoing things within.
and so at last mount to my ultimate destination.  Let me make a clean breast
thee; I see!  the billow lifts thee!  Speak, but speak! --Aye, aye!  thy
Southern whale-fishers are not so snugly housed aloft as Captain Sleet and his
them to produce their weapons.  Then ranging them before him near the capstan,
     mostly float.  For one, I used to lounge up the rigging very leisurely,

the group; he stood for an instant searchingly eyeing every man of his crew.
with Stubb and Flask, had thus far been eyeing his superior with increasing
Greenland-men were; yet that disadvantage is greatly counterbalanced by the
the bison; but, alas!  only to fall into the hidden snare of the Indian.
with their lances, and the rest of the ship's company formed a circle round
ye, whosoever of ye raises me that same white whale, he shall have this gold
ye!  d'ye see this Spanish ounce of gold? --holding up a broad bright coin to
Vitus' imp --away, thou ague!  Advance, ye mates!  Cross your lances full

     ( Stubb solus, and
gone.  Steward, refill!  Attend now, my braves.  I have mustered ye all round
in some sort revive a noble custom of my fisherman fathers before me.  O men,

.. < chapter xxxix 2  FIRST NIGHT-WATCH FORE-TOP >
so?  Because a laugh's the wisest, easiest answer to all that's queer; and
old Mogul has fixed him, too.  I twigged it, knew it; had had the gift,
.. <p 168 >
saw it.  Well, Stubb, wise Stubb --that's my title --well, Stubb, what of it,
Stubb?  Here's a carcase.  I know not all that may be coming, but be it what
phantom futures!  Stand by me, hold me, bind me, O ye blessed influences!
horribles!  I feel funny.  Fa, la!  lirra, skirra!  What's my juicy little pear
sunrise nobly spurred me, so the sunset soothed.  No more.  This lovely
latent horror in thee!  but 'tis not me!  that horror's out of me!  and with
hour like this, with soul beat down and held to knowledge, --as wild,
     me through!  Peace!  ye revellers, and set the watch!  Oh, life! 'tis in an
plumbs the blue.  The diver sun --slow dived from noon, --goes down; my soul
sir -- ( Aside) he's my superior, he has his too, if I'm not mistaken. -- Aye,

.. < chapter xl 2  MIDNIGHT, FORECASTLE HARPOONERS AND SAILORS >
ever-brimming goblet's rim, the warm waves blush like wine.  The gold brow
aft!  Methinks it pictures life.  Foremost through the sparkling sea shoots on
[ A burst of revelry from the forecastle.] Oh, God!  to sail with such a
run down; my heart the all-controlling weight, I have no key to lift again.
     some lurid woe would shrivel me up, had I it.  Yet is there hope.  Time and

his impious end; but feel that
adieu to you, Spanish ladies!  Farewell and adieu to you, ladies of Spain!  Our
But he drilled deep down, and blasted all my reason out of me!  I think I see
it's bad for the digestion!  Take a tonic, follow me! ( Sings, and all
     against it.  My soul is more than matched; she's overmanned; and by a

the gay, embattled, bantering bow, but only to drag dark Ahab after it, where
the soft feeling of the human in me, yet will I try to fight ye, ye grim,
     By the Mainmast; Starbuck leaning

from the Quarter-Deck Eight bells there, forward! 2nd Nantucket Sailor
Avast the chorus!  Eight bells there!  d'ye hear, bell-boy?  Strike the bell
.. < chapter xxxviii 26  DUSK >
of mouth for that --the hogshead mouth.  So, so, ( thrusts his head down the
.. <p 166 >
Over unsounded gorges, through the rifled hearts of mountains, under
up!  Dutch Sailor Grand snoozing to-night, maty; fat night for that.  I mark
this in our old Mogul's wine; it's quite as deadening to some as
fixed purpose is laid with iron rails, whereon my soul is grooved to run.
else ye swerve yourselves!  man has ye there.  Swerve me?  The path to my
ground-tier butts.  At 'em again!  There, take this copper-pump, and hail
--Take some one of your own size; don't pommel me!  No, ye've knocked me
the resurrection; they must kiss their last, and come to judgment.  That's
the way -- that's it; thy throat ain't spoiled with eating Amsterdam butter.
Burkes and blinded Bendigoes!  I will not say as school-boys do to bullies,
am madness maddened!  That wild madness that's only calm to comprehend
in Blanket Bay.  What say ye?  There comes the other watch.  Stand by all
legs!  Pip!  little Pip!  hurrah with your tambourine!  Pip ( Sulky and
I've willed, I'll do!  They think me mad --Starbuck does; but I'm demoniac, I
match itself must needs be wasting!  What I've dared, I've willed; and what
viewing of those gallant whales That blew at every strand.  Oh, your tubs in
wag thy ears.  Jig it, men, I say; merry's the word; hurrah!  Damn me, won't
'Twas not so hard a task.  I thought to find one stubborn, at
Good night --good night! ( waving his hand, he moves from the window.)
throw cold water on the subject; but excuse me.  Maltese Sailor Me too;
where's your girls?  Who but a fool would take his left hand by his right,
light, it lights not me; all loveliness is anguish to me, since I can ne'er
eye Starbuck then looked something as I the other evening felt.  Be sure the
--that I feel; the jagged edge galls me so, my brain seems to beat against
of us.  Hoe corn when you may, I say.  All legs go to harvest soon.  Ah!  here
mounts up!  she wearies with her endless hill.  Is, then, the crown too heavy
lips while meeting.  a brave stave that --who calls?  mr.  starbuck?  Aye, aye,
one officer to the other, he brimmed the harpoon sockets with the fiery waters
     Ahab sitting alone, and gazing out.  I leave a white and turbid wake;

Here you are, Pip; and there's the windlass-bitts; up you mount!  Now, boys!
 ( The half of them dance to the tambourine; some go below; some
     The cabin; by the stern windows;

Sailor ( Dancing.) Go it, Pip!  Bang it, bell-boy!  Rig it, dig it, stig
it, quig it, bell-boy; Make fire-flies; break the jinglers!  Pip
.. < chapter xxxvii 7  SUNSET >
.. <p 165 >
French Sailor Merry-mad!  Hold up thy hoop, Pip, till I jump through it!
split jibs!  tear yourselves!  Tashtego ( Quietly smoking.) That's a white
man; he calls that fun: humph!  I save my sweat.  Old Manx Sailor I wonder
whether those jolly lads bethink them of what they are dancing over.  I'll
dispersed; and Ahab retired within his cabin.
among the frantic crew; when, waving his free hand to them, they all
green navies and the green-skulled crews!  Well, well; belike the whole
world's a ball, as you scholars have it; and so 'tis right to make one
.. <p 165 >
hunt Moby Dick to his death!  The long, barbed steel goblets were lifted;
deathful whaleboat's bow -- Death to Moby Dick!  God hunt us all, if we do not
chalices!  Bestow them, ye who are now made parties to this indissoluble
     from the pewter.  Now, three to three, ye stand.  Commend the murderous

Lascar Sailor By Brahma!  boys, it'll be douse sail soon.  The sky-born,
Maltese Sailor ( Reclining and shaking his cap.) It's the waves --the
high-tide Ganges turned to wind!  Thou showest thy black brow, Seeva!
snow's caps turn to jig it now.  They'll shake their tassels soon.  Now would
Stubb and Flask looked sideways from him; the honest eye of Starbuck fell
     Stab me not with that keen steel!  Cant them; cant them over!  know ye not
glances of warm, wild bosoms in the dance, when the over-arboring arms hide
it!  Hark ye, lad --fleet interlacings of the limbs --lithe swayings --coyings
nameless, interior volition, he would fain have shocked into them the same

Sailor ( Reclining on a mat.) Hail, holy nakedness of our dancing girls!
such ripe, bursting grapes.  Sicilian Sailor ( Reclining.) Tell me not of
     Silently obeying the order, the three harpooneers now stood with the detached

--not thou nor I can bear the change!  How then, if so be transplanted to yon
Starbuck to Stubb; from Stubb to Flask.  It seemed as though, by some
green the first day i brought ye thence; now worn and wilted quite.  Ah me!
leap down the crags and drown the villages? --The blast!  the blast!  Up,
rolls swashing 'gainst the side!  Stand by for reefing, hearties!  the winds
sky?  Hear I the roaring streams from Pirohitee's peak of spears, when they
order ye; ye will it.  Cut your seizings and draw the poles, ye harpooneers!
Perchance ye need it not.  Down lances!  And now, ye mates, I do appoint ye
spine, and meet it! ( Leaps to his feet.) Portuguese Sailor How the sea
taste, observe ye, else come satiety.  Eh, Pagan? ( Nudging.) Tahitan
thinking over it ever since, and that ha, ha's the final consequence.  Why
.. <p 164 >
squall, something as they burst a waterspout with a pistol --fire your ship
you dance?  Form, now, Indian-file, and gallop into the double-shuffle?
your boats, my boys, And by your braces stand, And we'll have one of those
.. <p 174 >
Spanish Sailor No; Daggoo showing his teeth.  Daggoo ( springing) Swallow
can't be, or else in his one case our old Mogul's fire-waters are somewhat
repeated disastrous repulses, all accumulating and piling their terrors upon
one and the same instant of time.  Nor, credulous as such minds must have been,
superstitiously inclined, was the unearthly conceit that Moby Dick was
probability.  For as the secrets of the currents in the seas have never yet
last coming to be linked with the White Whale in the minds of the
from the battle if offered.  One of the wild suggestings referred to, as at
and vaguely, without the specific details of any certain calamity, and
Dick; and a still greater number who, chancing only to hear of him distantly
popularly regarded.  And as for those who, previously hearing of the White
such vast swiftness to the most widely distant points.  It is a thing well
     are some remarkable documents that may be consulted.  Nevertheless, some there
ubiquitous; that he had actually been encountered in opposite latitudes at
modes whereby, after sounding to a great depth, he transports himself with

some of these instances it has been declared that the interval of time between
the two assaults could not have exceeded very many days.  Hence, by inference,
it, would be inevitably to be torn into a quick eternity.  on this head, there
perils of this new and daring warfare; such men protesting that although
living experience of living men, the prodigies related in old times of the
oftentimes hard to induce long practised Right whalemen to embark in the
Povelson, the superstitious belief in them is, in some vicissitudes of their
Sperm Whale, all fish (sharks included) are struck with the most lively
upon authoritative record years ago by Scoresby, that some whales have been
these fabulous narrations are almost fully equalled by the realities of the
was this conceit altogether without some faint show of superstitious
For in his Natural History, the Baron himself affirms that at sight of the
consternation to every other creature in the sea, but also to be so incredibly
still further in their superstitions; declaring Moby Dick not only ubiquitous,
--Olassen and Povelson --declaring the Sperm Whale not only to be a
Southern whaling.  Nor is the pre-eminent tremendousness of the great Sperm
.. <p 178 >
.. <p 180 >
blood, such a sight would be but a ghastly deception; for again in
hearken with a childish fire-side interest and awe, to the wild, strange
more be seen.  But even stripped of these supernatural surmisings, there was
shirr!  Here have I heard all their chat just now, and the white whale
American flag, who have never hostilely encountered the Sperm Whale, but
squall!  the squall!  jump, my jollies! ( They scatter.) Pip ( shrinking
strike the imagination with unwonted power.  For, it was not so much his
uncommon bulk that so much distinguished him from other sperm whales, but, as
     as a body.  There are those this day among them, who, though intelligent and
was elsewhere thrown out --a peculiar snow-white wrinkled forehead, and a
a long distance, to those who knew him.  The rest of his body was so streaked,

     gained his distinctive appellation of the white Whale; a name, indeed,
day has the original prestige of the Sperm Whale, as fearfully distinguished
literally justified by his vivid aspect, when seen gliding at high noon
many of them adventurously pushing their quest along solitary latitudes, so
spangled with golden gleamings.  Nor was it his unwonted magnitude, nor his
remarkable hue, nor yet his deformed lower jaw, that so much invested the
through a dark blue sea, leaving a milky-way wake of creamy foam, all
other and more vital practical influences at work.  Not even at the present
half-formed foetal suggestions of supernatural agencies, which eventually
perhaps aught else.  For, when swimming before his exulting pursuers, with
did in the end incorporate with themselves all manner of morbid hints, and
hearthstone, or aught hospitable beneath that part of the sun; in such
splinters, or drive them back in consternation to their ship.  Already several
miles, and passed a thousand shores, you would not come to any chiselled
contact with whatever is appallingly astonishing in the sea; face to face
rumors which sometimes circulate there.  For not only are whalemen as a body
that every dismembering or death that he caused, was not wholly regarded as
.. <p 177 >
.. <p 181 >
dread in my soul.  A wild, mystical, sympathetical feeling was in me; Ahab's
minds of his more desperate hunters were impelled, when amid the chips of
naturally grow out of the very body of all surprising terrible events, --as the
smitten tree gives birth to its fungi; but, in maritime life, far more than
sunlight, that smiled on, as if at a birth or a bridal.  His three boats stove
hunters, to whom the story of the White Whale had eventually come.  Nor did
Moby Dick; those things had gone far to shake the fortitude of many brave
.. <p 179 >
the fathom-deep life of the whale.  That captain was Ahab.  And then it was,
that suddenly sweeping his sickle-shaped lower jaw beneath him, Moby Dick had
every one of them, almost, as boldly and fearlessly lowered for him, as for
have no bowels to feel fear!
malice.  Small reason was there to doubt, then, that ever since that almost
mostly, the disastrous encounter between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been
battle to Moby Dick; such hunters, perhaps, for the most part, were content
attacked; therefore it was, that those who by accident ignorantly gave
spiritual exasperations.  The White Whale swam before him as the monomaniac
incarnation of all those malicious agencies which some deep men feel eating in
them, till they are left living on with half a heart and half a lung.  That
intangible malignity which has been from the beginning; to whose dominion
completely escaped them; to some minds it was not an unfair presumption, I
malignity, which whale, after doing great mischief to his assailants, had
whaleman.  Forced into familiarity, then, with such prodigies as these; and
.. <p 176 >
hard!  Jimmini, what a squall!  But those chaps there are worse yet --they are
whereby, even in the limitless, uncharted seas, he revealed his identity, at
subtle demonisms of life and thought; all evil, to crazy Ahab, were visibly
disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire watery circumference,
whale's white hump the sum of all the general rage and hate felt by his whole
race from Adam down; and then, as if his chest had been a mortar, he burst
existence; only a few of them, comparatively, had knowingly seen him; while
frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen.  But not all of them knew of his
quenchless feud seemed mine.  With greedy ears I learned the history of that
precise time of his bodily dismemberment.  Then, in darting at the monster,
Who'd go climbing after chestnuts now?  But there they go, all cursing, and
     I, Ishmael, was one of that crew; my shouts
felt the agonizing bodily laceration, but nothing more.  Yet, when by this
collision forced to turn towards home, and for long months of days and weeks,

white curds of the whale's direful wrath into the serene, exasperating
and gashed soul bled into one another; and so interfusing, made him mad.
captured far north in the Pacific, in whose bodies have been found the barbs
final monomania seized him, seems all but certain from the fact that, at
intervals during the passage, he was a raving lunatic; and, though unlimbed
of a leg, yet such vital strength yet lurked in his Egyptian chest, and was
moreover intensified by his delirium, that his mates were forced to lace him
have mercy on this small black boy down here; preserve him from all men that
--shirr!  shirr! --but spoken of once!  and only this evening -- it makes me
sufferable latitudes, the ship, with mild stun'sails spread, floated across
the tranquil tropics, and, to all appearances, the old man's delirium seemed
the spread through the whole world-wide whaling-fleet of the special
Tashtego ( with a whiff) A row a'low, and a row aloft --Gods and men --both
here I don't.  Fine prospects to 'em; they're on the road to heaven.  Hold on
his hidden self, raved on.  Human madness is oftentimes a cunning and most
his mates thanked God the direful madness was now gone; even then, Ahab, in
Knife thee heartily!  big frame, small spirit!  All A row!  a row!  a row!
deepeningly contracted; like the unabated Hudson, when that noble Northman
flows narrowly, but unfathomably through the Highland gorge.  But, as in his
into some still subtler form.  Ahab's full lunacy subsided not, but
narrow-flowing monomania, not one jot of Ahab's broad madness had been left
     under the windlass) Jollies?  Lord help such jollies!  Crish, crash!  there

.. <p 183 >
stormed his general sanity, and carried it, and turned all its concentred
such a furious trope may stand, his special lunacy
unensanguined billows hundreds of leagues away, his unsullied jet would once
were believed to have come from the Holy Land by an underground passage);
whale with natural terror, as that unexampled, intelligent malignity which,
winter that dreary, howling Patagonian Cape; then it was, that his torn body
with malice in it; all that cracks the sinews and cakes the brain; all the
within the very heart of this spiked Hotel de Cluny where we here stand
yet Ahab's larger, darker, deeper part remains unhinted.  But vain to
State-secret come.  Now, in his heart, Ahab had some glimpse of this, namely:
all my means are sane, my motive and my object mad.  Yet without power to
brow the piled entablatures of ages.  Wind ye down there, ye prouder, sadder
clouds of spiritual wonderment and pale dread, in which that white phantom
great, unflattering laureate, Nature.
his old acquaintances on shore but half dreamed of what was lurking in him
its intensity completely overpowered all the rest; and yet so mystical and
.. <p 187 >
flaky whiteness makes them the transcendent horrors they are?  That ghastly
more loathsome than terrific, to the dumb gloating of their aspect.  So that
his lofty, overscorning carriage.  He was the elected Xerxes of vast herds of
not the fierce-fanged tiger in his heraldic coat can so stagger courage as the
bear of the poles, and the white shark of the tropics; what but their smooth,
in itself, to heighten that terror to the furthest bounds.  Witness the white
flashing cascade of his mane, the curving comet of his tail, invested him
small-headed, bluff-chested, and with the dignity of a thousand monarchs in
furnished him.  A most imperial and archangelical apparition of that unfallen,
western world, which to the eyes of the old trappers and hunters revived the
glories of those primeval times when Adam walked majestic as a god,
divorced from more kindly associations, and coupled with any object terrible
     This elusive quality it is, which causes the thought of whiteness, when
the plains, like an Ohio; or whether with his circumambient subjects browsing

strikes more of panic to the soul than that redness which affrights in blood.
warm nostrils reddening through his cool milkiness; in whatever aspect he
     there yet lurks an elusive something in the innermost idea of this hue, which

legendary record of
.. <p 189 >
this noble horse, that it was his spiritual whiteness chiefly, which so
clothed him with divineness; and that this divineness had that in it which,
though commanding worship, at the same time enforced a certain nameless
terror.  But there are other instances where this whiteness loses all that
accumulated associations, with whatever is sweet, and honorable, and sublime,
and the Holy One that sitteth there white like wool; yet for all these
four-and-twenty elders stand clothed in white before the great white throne,
eye, as that sometimes he is loathed by his own kith and kin!  It is that
whiteness which invests him, a thing expressed by the name he bears.  The
of one part of their sacred vesture, the alb or tunic, worn beneath the
directly from the Latin word for white, all Christian priests derive the name
than the ugliest abortion.  Why should this be so?  Nor, in quite other
     and in the Greek mythologies, Great Jove himself made incarnate in a

terrible.  From its snowy aspect, the gauntleted ghost of the Southern Seas
has been denominated the White Squall.  Nor, in some historic instances, has
the art of human malice omitted so potent an auxiliary.  How wildly it
heightens the effect of that passage in Froissart, when, masked in the snowy
fire worshippers, the white forked flame being held the holiest on the altar;
and contributes to the daily state of kings and queens drawn by milk-white
climes, whiteness typifies the majesty of Justice in the ermine of the Judge,
hue.  It cannot well be doubted, that the one visible quality in the aspect of
the dead which most appals the gazer, is the marble pallor lingering there;
a joyful day; and though in other mortal sympathies and symbolizings, this
even made significant of gladness, for among the Romans a white stone marked
.. <p 186 >
human race itself, giving the white man ideal mastership over every dusky
in our superstitions do we fail to throw the same snowy mantle round our
phantoms; all ghosts rising in a milk-white fog --Yea, while these terrors
seize us, let us add, that even the king of terrors, when personified by the
Empire, Caesarian, heir to overlording Rome, having for the imperial color
symbolize whatever grand or
bearing the one figure of a snow-white charger; and the great Austrian
magniloquent ascriptions of dominion; and the modern kings of Siam unfurling
idealized significance it calls up a peculiar apparition to the soul.  But
though without dissent this point be fixed, how is mortal man to account for
it?  To analyse it, would seem impossible.  Can we, then, by the citation of
a certain royal pre-eminence in this hue; even the barbaric, grand old kings
beauty, as if imparting some special virtue of its own, as in marbles,
to impart to it aught fearful, but, nevertheless, is found to exert over us
the same sorcery, however modified; --can we thus hope to light upon some
naught.  Though in many natural objects, whiteness refiningly enhances
appalled me.  But how can I hope to explain myself here; and yet, in some
it so very unlikely, that far from distrusting his fitness for another whaling
of the imaginative impressions about to be presented may have been shared by
most men, yet few perhaps were entirely conscious of them at the time, and
therefore may not be able to recall them now.  Why to the man of untutored
Aside from those more obvious considerations touching Moby Dick, which could
Ahab, has been hinted; what, at times, he was to me, as yet remains unsaid.
fancy such long, dreary, speechless processions of slow-pacing pilgrims,
downcast and hooded with new-fallen snow?  Or, to the unread, unsophisticated
     What the white whale was to

is there apart from the traditions of dungeoned warriors and kings (which
wild horses, whose pastures in those days were only fenced by the Rocky
much more strongly on the imagination of an untravelled American, than those
.. < chapter xlii 6  THE WHITENESS OF THE WHALE >
.. <p 185 >
whence, in peculiar moods, comes that gigantic ghostliness over the soul at
the bare mention of that name, while the thought of Virginia's Blue Ridge is
For one, I gave myself up to the abandonment of the time and the place; but
irresistible arm drag?  What skiff in tow of a seventy-four can stand still?
spectralness
.. <p 185 >
does not feel the
long lacquered mild afternoons on the waves, followed by the gaudiest and yet
sleepiest of sunsets?  Or, to choose a wholly unsubstantial instance, purely
can go.  The subterranean miner that works in us all, how can one tell
White Whale was to them, or how to their unconscious understandings, also, in
pallor unrestingly glides through the green of the groves --why is this phantom
more terrible than all the whooping imps of the Blocksburg?  Nor is it,
aboundingly responded to the old man's ire --by what evil magic their souls
stampedoes of her frantic seas: nor the tearlessness of arid skies that never
rain; nor the sight of her wide field of leaning spires, wrenched
cannibals --morally enfeebled also, by the incompetence of mere unaided virtue
head of a crew, too, chiefly made up of mongrel renegades, and castaways, and
white-shrouded bear or shark.  Bethink thee of the albatross, whence come those
tossed pack of cards; --it is not these things alone which make tearless Lima,
kill, or change, or shun the fact; he likewise knew that to mankind he did
certain it is, that with the mad secret of his unabated rage bolted up and
cheer and howl on his underlings to the attack.  But be all this as it may,
rigid pallor of an apoplexy that fixes its own distortions.  I know that, to
the common apprehension, this phenomenon of whiteness is not confessed to be
the prime agent in exaggerating the terror of objects otherwise terrible; nor
to the unimaginative mind is there aught of terror in those appearances whose
incapacitated for that, yet such an one would seem superlatively competent to
appalling of all brutes.  Or, if for any reason thought to be corporeally
elucidated by the following examples.  First: The mariner, when drawing nigh
terrible casualty which had overtaken him.  The report of his undeniable
the coasts of foreign lands, if by night he hear the roar of breakers, starts
to vigilance, and feels just enough of trepidation to sharpen all his
bloody hunt of whales.  Gnawed within and scorched without, with the infixed,
harbor the conceit, that for those very reasons he was all the better
.. <p 184 >
.. <p 192 >
a silent, superstitious dread; the shrouded phantom of the whitened waters is
horrible to him as a real ghost; in vain the lead assures him he is still off
round him, then he feels
soundings; heart and helm they both go down; he never rests till blue water
the strangest, saddest city thou can'st see.  For Lima has taken the white
delirium at sea was likewise popularly ascribed to a kindred cause.  And so
universality.  What I mean by these two statements may perhaps be respectively
whiteness that so stirred me?  Second: To the native Indian of Peru, the
determinate.  Nevertheless, so well did he succeed in that dissembling, that
sails in all imaginations?  Not Coleridge first threw that spell; but God's
will not wholly account for it) that makes the White Tower of London tell so
with housings more resplendent than gold and silver-beaters could have
creatures in his green northern home, so that the strange muskiness he smells
.. < chapter xliii 10  HARK >
.. <p 194 >
adoring cherubim!
Polar bear frightens us with so unnatural a contrast.  But even assuming all
in some peaceful valley of Vermont, far removed from all beasts of prey --why
is it that upon the sunniest day, if you but shake a fresh buffalo robe
Heaven, when the white fowl flew to join the wing-folding, the invoking, and
of annihilation, when beholding the white depths of the milky way?  Or is it,
     But I doubt not, that leathern tally, meant for man, was taken off in
of the quarter-deck, they were careful not to speak or rustle their feet.
arises from the circumstance, that the irresponsible ferociousness of the


fain go still deeper into this matter, that it is not the whiteness,
hatches --don't you hear it --a cough--it sounded like a cough.  Cough be
     tell; with a treacherous hook and line, as the fowl floated on the sea.  At
like two or three sleepers turning over, now!  Caramba!  have done,
scuttle-butt near the taffrail.  In this manner, they passed the buckets to
over inside of ye --nothing else.  Look to the bucket!

fowl.  But how had the mystic thing been caught?  Whisper it not, and I will
With reference to the Polar bear, it may possibly be urged by him who would
shipmate, will ye?  It's the three soaked biscuits ye eat for supper turning
sea from Nantucket; you're the chap.  Grin away; we'll see what turns up.
frequently seen, but never with such emotions as when I beheld the Antarctic
assert, then, that in the wondrous bodily whiteness of the bird chiefly
heard Stubb tell Flask, one morning watch, that there was something of that
sort in the wind.  Tish!  the bucket!
burnish a little brighter the noble merit of the poem and the poet.  I
.. <p 188n. >
albatross.  So that by no possibility could Coleridge's wild Rhyme have had
     A goney, he replied.  Goney!  I never had heard that name before;  is it
cabin after the squall that took place on the night succeeding that wild
ratification of his purpose with his crew, you would have seen him go to a
locker in the transom, and bringing out a large wrinkled roll of yellowish
sea charts, spread them before him on his screwed-down table.  Then seating

     then.  But at last I awoke; and turning, asked a sailor what bird was this.
if
refer to piles of old log-books beside him, wherein were set down the seasons

of plumage.  I cannot tell, can only hint, the things that darted through me
suspended in chains over his head, continually rocked with the motion of the
ship, and for ever threw shifting gleams and shadows of lines upon his
the occasional flap of a sail, and the steady hum of the unceasingly
before the angels, I bowed myself; the white thing was so white, its wings
tracing lines and courses upon the deeply marked chart of his forehead.  But
it was not this night in particular that, in the solitude of
eyes, methought I peeped to secrets which took hold of God.  As Abraham
throbbings shook it.  Though bodily unharmed, it uttered cries, as some
     main hatches, I saw a regal, feathery thing of unspotted whiteness, and
were substituted.  For with the charts of all four oceans before him, Ahab
was threading a maze of currents and eddies, with a view to the more certain

     prolonged gale, in waters hard upon the Antarctic seas.  From my forenoon
hopeless task thus to seek out one solitary creature in the unhooped oceans of
this planet.  But not so did it seem to Ahab, who knew the sets of all tides

call him Requin.  I remember the first albatross I ever saw.  It was during a
him in particular latitudes; could arrive at reasonable surmises, almost
death in this shark, and the mild deadliness of his habits, the French
that ground in search of his prey.  So assured, indeed, is the fact concerning
the periodicalness of the sperm whale's resorting to given waters, that many
other funereal music.  Now, in allusion to the white, silent stillness of
world; were the logs for one voyage of the entire whale fleet carefully
(eternal rest),  whence Requiem denominating the mass itself, and any
strangely tallies with the same quality in the Polar quadruped.  This
color, and at the same time the concrete of all colors; is it for these
ghostliness of repose in that creature, when beheld in his ordinary moods,
cordon, extending from one of the fresh-water butts in the waist, to the
advancing keel.  It was in the midst of this repose, that Archy, one of the
secret intelligence from the Deity --mostly swim in
bucket, will ye, Archy?  what noise d'ye mean?  There it is again --under the
     Say what ye will, shipmate; I've sharp ears.  Aye, you are the chap, ain't
.. <p 187n. >
with such undeviating exactitude, that no ship ever sailed her course, by any
chart, with one tithe of such marvellous precision.  Though, in these cases,
colored and coloring glasses upon their eyes, so the wretched infidel gazes
though the line of advance be strictly confined to its own unavoidable,
straight wake, yet the arbitrary vein in which at these times he is said to
before us a leper; and like wilful travellers in Lapland, who refuse to wear
appeals with such power to the soul; and more strange and far more portentous
the whale-ship's mast-heads, when circumspectly gliding along this magic
wrinkled brow, till it almost seemed that while he himself was marking out
great principle of light, for ever remains white or colorless in itself, and
consider that the mystical cosmetic which produces every one of her hues, the
actually inherent in substances, but only laid on from without; so that all
widest expanses of water between those grounds he could, by his art, so place
somewhere those things must exist.  Though in many of its aspects this visible
butterfly cheeks of young girls; all these are but subtile deceits, not
And when we consider that other theory of the natural philosophers, that all
prairies; all these, to Ishmael, are as the shaking of that buffalo robe to
perhaps.  Though the gregarious sperm whales have their regular seasons for
reasons that there is such a dumb blankness, full of meaning, in a wide
prairies, which this instant they may be trampling into dust.  Thus, then,
season; though there are peculiar and unquestionable instances where the
It was the middle-watch; a fair moonlight; the seamen were standing in a
     is, the intensifying agent in things the most appalling to mankind.  Is it
sperm whales.  So that though Moby Dick had in a former year been seen, for
example, on what is called the Seychelle ground in the Indian ocean, or

pequod to visit either of those spots at any subsequent corresponding season,
--why, as we have seen, it is at once the most meaning symbol of spiritual
additional courses over spaces that before were blank.  At intervals, he would
grounds, where he had at times revealed himself.  But all these seemed only
his casual stopping-places and ocean-inns, so to speak, not his places of
prolonged abode.  And where Ahab's chances of accomplishing
and time himself on his way, as even then not to be wholly without prospect of
particular grounds, yet in general you cannot conclude that the herds which
whatever way-side, antecedent, extra prospects were his, ere a particular set
time or place were attained, when all possibilities would become
On this hint, attempts have been made to construct elaborate migratory charts
to a certainty.  That particular set time and place were conjoined in the one
technical phrase --the Season-on-the-Line.  For there and then, for several
.. <p 193 >
predicted interval in any one sign of the Zodiac.  There it was, too, that
those waters for awhile, as the sun, in its annual round, loiters for a
instinct of the knowledge of the demonism in the world.  Though
monomaniac old man had found the awful motive to his vengeance.  But in the
waves were storied with his deeds; there also was that tragic spot where the
     cannot recall to him anything associated with the experience of former

all his hopes upon the one crowning fact above mentioned, however flattering
it might be to those hopes; nor in the sleeplessness of his vow could he so
the Pequod had sailed from Nantucket at the very beginning of the
tranquillize his unquiet heart as to postpone all intervening quest.  Now,
zone.  The sum is, that at particular seasons within that breadth and along
ye, that heard the hum of the old Quakeress's knitting-needles fifty miles at
Nor-Westers, Harmattans, Trades; any wind but the Levanter and Simoom, might
blow Moby Dick into
good ground to impeach.  secondly: It is well known in the Sperm Whale
in any other waters haunted by his race.  So that Monsoons, Pampas,
     I say three years, but I am pretty sure it was more than that.  Here are

memorable historical instances where a particular whale in the ocean has been
at distant times and places popularly cognisable.  Why such a whale became
of many other instances from persons whose veracity in the matter there is no
peculiarities as distinguished from other whales; for however peculiar in
that respect any chance whale may be, they soon put an end to his
peculiarities by killing him, and boiling him down into a peculiarly valuable
mole under the whale's eye, which I had observed there three years previous.
and last, and the last time distinctly recognized a peculiar sort of huge
there did about Rinaldo Rinaldini, insomuch that most fishermen were
feeds upon that heart for ever; that vulture the very creature he creates.
its flanks all the coasts of Africa; but to no purpose.  This man and this
light, to be sure, but without an object to color, and therefore a blankness
     miasmas, with all the other common perils incident to wandering in the heart
street, lest if they pursued the acquaintance further, they might receive a
summary thump for their presumption.  But not only did each of these famous
three instances, then, which I personally know the truth of; but I have heard

and distinctions of a name; had as much a name indeed as Cambyses or Caesar.
of nearly two years, often endangered by serpents, savages, tigers, poisonous
party, and penetrated far into the interior, where he travelled for a period
time but a vacated thing, a formless somnambulistic being, a ray of living
flinging of the two harpoons; and I think it may have been something more
from the body.  In the instance where three years intervened between the
have personally known three instances where a whale, after receiving a
they say at times assumed the semblance of a snow-white cross against the sky?
I take it --the conclusion aimed at will naturally follow of itself.  First: I
be content to produce the desired impression by separate citations of items,
four whales as well known to the students of Cetacean History as Marius or
must have been that, in Ahab's case, yielding up all his thoughts and fancies
affair.  I care not to perform this part of my task methodically; but shall
.. <p 201 >
.. <p 203 >
But as the mind does not exist unless leagued with the soul, therefore it
different
express object as much in view, as in setting out through the Narragansett
killed by valiant whaling captains, who heaved up their anchors with that
ignorance of the entire subject may
of the frantic thing, of which, for the time, it was no longer an integral.
further and more familiarly enlarged upon, in order to be adequately
one or two other things, which to me seem important, as in printed form
found in this volume; but the leading matter of it requires to be still
foregoing chapter, in its earliest part, is as important a one as will be
     So far as what there may be of a

     So ignorant are most landsmen of some of the plainest and most palpable
Ahab that had gone to his hammock, was not the agent that so caused
historical and otherwise, of the fishery, they might scout at Moby Dick as a
monstrous fable, or still worse and more detestable, a hideous and
intolerable allegory.  First: Though most men have some vague flitting ideas
of the general perils of the grand fishery, yet they have nothing like a
.. < chapter xlv 24  THE AFFIDAVIT >
recur.  One reason perhaps is, that not one in fifty of the actual disasters
and deaths by casualties in the fishery, ever finds a public record at home,
.. <p 200 >
that poor fellow there, who this moment perhaps caught by the whale-line off
the coast of New Guinea, is being carried down to the bottom of the sea by
the sounding leviathan --do you suppose that that poor fellow's name will
others to show the number of days in which whales, sperm or right, have been
days that have been spent in each month in every district, and the two
     the circular.  This chart divides the ocean into districts of five degrees
from New Guinea?  Yet I tell you that upon one particular voyage which I made
from a bed that was on fire.  Yet these, perhaps, instead of being the
of which had had a death by a whale, some of them more than one, and three
that had each lost a boat's crew.  For God's sake, be economical with your

.  By that circular, it appears that precisely
.. <p 204 >
Secondly: People ashore have indeed some indefinite idea that a whale is an
enormous creature of enormous power; but I have ever found that when
narrating to them some specific example of this two-fold enormousness, they
have significantly complimented me upon my facetiousness; when, I declare
to the Pacific, among many others we spoke thirty different ships, every one
the history of the plagues of Egypt.  But fortunately the special point I here
Washington, April 16th,
.. <p 196n. >
knowing, and judiciously malicious, as with direct aforethought to stave in,
upon my soul, I had no more idea of being facetious than Moses, when he wrote
content to recognise him by merely touching their tarpaulins when he would be
intimate acquaintance.  Like some poor devils ashore that happen to know an
case, these spiritual throes in him heaved his being up from its base, and a
common vitality to which it was conjoined, fled horror-stricken from the
lowered her boats, and gave chase to a shoal of sperm whales.  Ere long,
several of the whales were wounded; when, suddenly, a very large whale
independent being of its own.  Nay, could grimly live and burn, while the
the ship.  dashing his forehead against her hull, he so stove her in, that
in his palms.  often, when forced from his hammock by exhausting and
tortoise with mystic hieroglyphics upon the back!  In plain prose, here are
murderous savage Annawon, the headmost warrior of the Indian King Philip.  I
.. <p 200 >
and shall he escape?  His broad fins are bored, and scalloped out like a lost
time his ship was utterly lost, and forthwith forswearing the sea, he has
never tempted it since.  At this day Captain Pollard is a resident of
Ahab, the scheming, unappeasedly steadfast hunter of the white whale; this
time of the tragedy; I have read his plain and faithful narrative; I have
conversed with his son; and all this within a few miles of the scene of the
unsuppressable symptoms of some latent weakness, or fright at his own resolve,
long after midnight he would throw himself back in reveries --tallied him,
     and accursed fiends beckoned him to leap down among them; when this hell in

     totally
Constantinople?  Yes.  For the peculiar snow-white brow of Moby Dick, and his
hunters I have now and then heard casual allusions to it.  Thirdly: Some
lost off the Azores by a similar onset, but the authentic particulars of
hunter, even as a white-bearded Mufti in the thronged thoroughfares of
sloop-of-war of the first class, happened to be dining with a party of
thus marked was not altogether and originally owing to his bodily
his life-spot became insufferable anguish; and when, as was sometimes the
utterly destroy, and sink a large ship; and what is more, the Sperm Whale has
desire.  He sleeps with clenched hands; and wakes with his own bloody nails
.. <p 199 >
commodore set sail in this impregnable craft for Valparaiso.  But he was
stopped on the way by a portly sperm whale, that begged a few moments'
thimbleful.  Very good; but there is more coming.  Some weeks after, the
whales enjoy great individual celebrity --nay, you may call it an ocean-wide
whaling captains, on board a Nantucket ship in the harbor of Oahu, Sandwich
this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter, though from the whale
mad idea, this; that in the broad boundless ocean, one solitary whale, even
vessels, were finally gone in quest of, systematically hunted out, chased and
who so long did'st lurk in the Oriental straits of that name, whose spout was
wonders of the world, that without some hints touching the plain facts,
     circumstance in point, peculiarly interesting to the writer hereof.
Krusenstern's famous Discovery Expedition in the beginning of the present
but so intolerably cold that we were obliged to keep on our fur clothing.  For
calculated to do us the most injury, by being made ahead, and thereby
horse walks off with a cart.  Again, it is very often observed that, if the
combining the speed of the two objects for the shock; to effect which, the
The following are extracts from Chace's narrative: Every fact seemed to
.. <p 204n. >
operations; he made two several attacks upon the ship, at a short interval
companions, as if fired with revenge for their sufferings.  Again: At all
Emperor, must in all probability have been a sperm whale.
eyes, and producing, at the time, impressions in my mind of decided,
calculating mischief, on the part of the whale (many of which impressions I
Procopius's sea-monster, that for half a century stove the ships of a Roman
opinion.  Here are his reflections some time after quitting the ship, during
a black night in an open boat, when almost despairing of reaching any
     you will clearly perceive that, according to all human reasoning,
fears of being swallowed up by some dreadful tempest, or dashed upon hidden

cuttle-fish --lurks at the bottom of that sea, because large creatures, but
seemed scarcely entitled to a moment's thought; the dismal looking wreck,
have every reason to believe that the food of the sperm whale --squid or
substance called brit is to be found, the aliment of the right whale.  But I
Propontis.  In the Propontis, as far as I can learn, none of that peculiar
Mediterranean.  I am told, on good authority, that on the Barbary coast, a
been isolated instances of the presence of the sperm whale in the
.. <p 209 >
Mediterranean and the deep waters connecting with it.  Even now I am certain
capture of Moby Dick; though he seemed ready to sacrifice all mortal
great mischief along the spanish land.  but i should not much wonder if, in the
interests to that one passion; nevertheless it may have been that he was by
nature and long habituation far too wedded to a fiery whaleman's ways,
long time I fancied that the sperm whale had been always unknown in the
cannot easily be gainsaid.  Nor is there any reason it should be.  Of what
Marmora, after having destroyed vessels at intervals in those waters for a
considering his monomania, to hint that his vindictiveness towards
Procopius mentions that, during the term of his prefecture at Constantinople,
purpose, Ahab in all his thoughts and actions ever had in view the ultimate
sperm whales, and that the more monsters he slew by so much the more he
affecting the matter presently to be mentioned.  Now, in this history of his,
authorities, he has always been considered a most trustworthy and
exceptionable, there were still additional considerations which, though not
so strictly according with the wildness of his ruling passion, yet were by
no means incapable of swaying him.  To accomplish his object Ahab must use
the White Whale might have possibly extended itself in some degree to all
history of his own times, a work every way of uncommon value.  By the best
Justinian was Emperor and Belisarius general.  As many know, he wrote the
Procopius, a Christian magistrate of Constantinople, in the days when
terrible shock, which put our men in such consternation that they could
stand in a sort of corporeal relation.  Starbuck's body and Starbuck's coerced
tools; and of all tools used in the shadow of the moon, men are most apt to
still he knew that for all this the chief mate, in his soul, abhorred his
of the ages; so that for the millionth time we say amen with Solomon --Verily
most significant one, by which you will not fail to see, that not only is
be content with only one more and a concluding illustration; a remarkable and
his pursuers; nor is it without conveying some eloquent indication of his
some ordinary, prudential, circumstantial influences were brought to bear upon
often with blind rage, as with wilful, deliberate designs of destruction to
between them, both of which, according to their direction,  were
shrewdness in foreseeing that, for the present, the hunt should in some way
a running sperm whale have, in a calm, been transferred to the ship, and
.. <p 208 >
obscure background (for few men's courage is proof against protracted
meditation unrelieved by action); that when they stood their long night
warrant me in concluding that it was anything but chance which directed his
but to pursue the ship itself, and long withstand all the lances hurled at
capricious and unreliable --they live in the varying outer weather, and they
commanding the ship in question, is a New Englander, who, after a long life
has been known, not only to chase the assailing boats back to their ships,
an unseen whale vertically bumping the hull from beneath.  I might proceed
and passion in the end, it is above all things requisite that temporary
darkness of that early hour of the morning, the shock was after all caused by
for the final dash.  Nor was Ahab unmindful of another thing.  In times of
inhale its fickleness --and when retained
strong emotion mankind disdain all base considerations; but such times are
escaped entirely uninjured.  now, the captain d'wolf here alluded to as
hearts of this my savage crew, and playing round their savageness even breeds
of which was larger than the ship itself, lay almost at the surface of the
head on a gun, was thrown out of his cabin!  Lionel then goes on to impute
they give chase to Moby Dick, they must also have food for their more common,
     for granted the ship had struck against a rock; but when the amazement was a
thought Ahab, is sordidness.  Granting that the White Whale fully incites the
their holy sepulchre, without committing burglaries, picking pockets, and

their one final and romantic object --that final and romantic object, too many
times were not content to traverse two thousand miles of land to fight for
hardly tell where they were or what to think; but every one began to prepare
saw the monster sailing off with the utmost gravity and solemnity.  Captain
quiescent cash all at once mutinying in them, this same cash would soon
of ancient Dampier's old chums --I found a little matter set down so like that
related to Ahab personally.  Having impulsively, it is probable, and perhaps
somewhat prematurely revealed the prime but private purpose of the Pequod's
voyage, Ahab was now entirely conscious that, in so doing, he had indirectly
The ship, however, was by no means a large one: a Russian craft built on the
.. <p 207 >
competent, could refuse all further obedience to him, and even violently
most imminent danger, as this gigantic creature, setting up its back,
usurpation, and the possible consequences of such a suppressed impression
Dorchester near Boston.  I have the honor of being a nephew of his.  I have
impossible to prevent its striking against him.  We were thus placed in the
interests and employment should intervene and hold them healthily suspended
had received any damage from the shock, but we found that very happily it had
D'Wolf applied immediately to the pumps to examine whether or not the vessel
intellectual mastership; for to the purely spiritual, the intellectual but
crew to be subjected to.  For all these reasons then, and others perhaps too
in a good degree continue true to the natural, nominal purpose of the Pequod's
voyage; observe all customary usages; and not only that, but force himself
which we had just before entered, and in which we had struck three of his
watches, his officers and men must have some nearer things to think of than
will were Ahab's, so long as Ahab kept his magnet at Starbuck's brain;
brisk gale from the northwest sprang up.  An uncommon large whale, the body
wrest from him the command.  From even the barely hinted imputation of
would have turned from in disgust.  I will not strip these men, thought Ahab,
Queequeg, while busy at the mat.  As I kept passing and repassing the
and subdued and yet somehow preluding was all the scene, and such an
incantation of revery lurked in the air, that each silent sailor seemed
the command.  Captain Ahab?-- said Starbuck.  Spread yourselves, cried Ahab;
loudly hailed Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask, to spread themselves widely, so as
and showed the five strangers rowing Ahab, who, standing erect in the stern,
a fourth keel, coming from the windward side, pulled round under the stern,
oar.  Lay back!  addressing his crew.  There! --there! --there again!  There
she blows right ahead, boys! -- lay back!  Never heed yonder yellow boys,
.. <p 216 >
boats below.  Hardly had they pulled out from under the ship's lee, when
the swart Fedallah and his crew, the inmates of the other boats obeyed not
hearts-alive; pull, my children; pull, my little ones, drawingly and
round in the blocks; with a wallow, the three boats dropped into the sea;
to cover a large expanse of water.  but with all their eyes again riveted upon
stare at?  Those chaps in yonder boat?  Tut!  They are only five more hands
spite of their amazement the men sprang over the rail; the sheaves whirled
deck.  Lower away there, I say.  Such was the thunder of his voice, that
there you are now; that's the stroke for a thousand pounds; that's the
stroke to sweep the stakes!  Hurrah for the gold cup of sperm oil, my heroes!
company were gazing upon these strangers, Ahab cried out to the
subtilty, and by some honest white mariners supposed to be the paid spies and
and round upon his head.  Less swart in aspect, the companions of this figure
and strong.  Give way there, give way!  The devil fetch ye, ye ragamuffin
cries.  To be sure the same sound was that very moment perhaps being heard all
threads of the warp subject to but one single, ever returning, unchanging
uneasiness.  Why don't you break your backbones, my boys?  What is it you
starboard quarter.  The figure that now stood by its bows was tall and swart,
     The phantoms, for so they then

mother's son of ye draw his knife, and pull with the blade between his teeth.
.. < chapter xlviii 2  THE FIRST LOWERING >
.. <p 215 >
steel-bits.  Start her --start her, my silver-spoons!  Start her,
marling-spikes!  Stubb's exordium to his crew is given here at large, because
instant a sudden exclamation was heard that took every eye from the whale.
about to throw themselves on board an enemy's ship.  But at this critical
expectantly poised on the gunwale.  So look the long line of man-of-war's men
specimen of his sermonizings that he ever flew into downright passions with
prescribed to by both, chance by turns rules either, and has the last
their eager crews with one hand clung to the rail, while one foot was
relieved the Indian at the main-mast head.  The sailors at the fore and
for shipkeepers -- that is, those not appointed to the boats, by this time
Whale when, sounding with his head in one direction, he nevertheless, while
advance of our bows.  For that singular craft at times evinced by the Sperm
managed his steering-oar, and so broadly gaped --open-mouthed at times --that
the mere sight of such a yawning commander, by sheer force of contrast,
down heading to leeward, we confidently looked to see them again directly in
     Time!  time!  Dough-Boy hurried below, glanced at the watch, and reported

sign from Ahab, Starbuck was now pulling obliquely across Stubb's bow; and
when for a minute or so the two boats were pretty near to each other, Stubb
from Tashtego; and the whales disappeared.  Quick, steward!  cried Ahab.
Instantly all was commotion.  The Sperm Whale blows as a clock ticks, with the
inch as he spoke; still earnestly but whisperingly urging his crew; his face
set like a flint from Stubb's.  What think ye of those yellow boys, sir!
     Where-away?  On the lee-beam, about two miles off!  a school of them!

     in a whisper to his crew, then speaking out loud again: A sad business,
.. <p 214 >
Mr. Stubb! (seethe her, seethe her, my lads!) but never mind, Mr. Stubb,
all for the best.  Let all your crew pull strong, come what will. (Spring, my
men, spring!)
horizon, you would have thought him some prophet or seer beholding the
rapscallions; ye are all asleep.  Stop snoring, ye sleepers, and pull.  Pull,
stretched out like a wand, and at brief sudden intervals he continued his
at a sound so strange, long drawn, and musically wild and unearthly, that the
when the boats diverged, as soon as I clapt eye on 'em, I thought so.  Aye,
featuring blow at events.  Thus we were weaving and weaving away when I started
his congregation.  Not at all; and therein consisted his chief peculiarity.
it.  Well, well, so be it!  Can't be helped!  All right!  Give way, men!  It
necessity, and sideways in its motions directed by free will, though thus
strangers at such a critical instant as the lowering of the boats from the
--aye, chance, free will, and necessity --no wise incompatible --all
and fashions both warp and woof; this easy, indifferent sword must be chance
completed fabric; this savage's sword, thought I, which thus finally shapes
previous got abroad among them, though indeed not credited then, this had in
some small measure prepared them for the event.  It took off the extreme edge
concluding blow producing a corresponding contrast in the final aspect of the
destiny into these unalterable threads.  Meantime, Queequeg's impulsive,
superstitious surmisings; though the affair still left abundant room for all
manner of wild conjectures as to dark Ahab's precise agency in the matter from
the beginning.  For me, I silently recalled the mysterious shadows I had seen
here, thought I, with my own hand I ply my own shuttle and weave my own
hand for the shuttle, and as Queequeg, standing sideways, ever and anon slid
.. <p 213 >
ranging ahead of the other boats; a circumstance bespeaking how potent a crew
was pulling him.  those tiger yellow creatures of his seemed all steel and
whale-bone; like five trip-hammers they rose and fell with regular strokes of
     were the Loom of Time, and I myself were a shuttle mechanically weaving and

displayed his naked chest with the whole part of his body above the gunwale,
filling or woof of marline between the long yarns of the warp, using my own
broken by the intermitting dull sound of the sword, that it seemed as if this
his heavy oaken sword between the threads, and idly looking off upon the
seen pulling the harpooneer oar, he had thrown aside his black jacket, and
will ye?  pull, can't ye?  pull, won't ye?  Why in the name of gudgeons and
you dogs!  So, so, so, then; --softly, softly!  That's it -- that's it!  long
ye, Cabaco?  They are stowaways, Mr. Flask.  Pull, pull, my fine
coolly and adroitly balancing himself to the jerking tossings of his chip of a
craft, and silently eyeing the vast blue eye of the sea.  Not very far
descried.  Likewise upon the extreme stern of the boat where it was also
allusions of his were at times so vivid and life-like, that they would cause
full of quick wonder and awe!  The vast swells of the omnipotent sea; the
some one or two of his men to snatch a fearful look over the shoulder.  But
gigantic bowls in a boundless bowling-green; the brief suspended agony of the
of Flask to that whale, as he called the fictitious monster which he
surging, hollow roar they made, as they rolled along the eight gunwales, like
his prey.  Meanwhile, all the boats tore on.  The repeated specific allusions
Ahab said to that tiger-yellow crew of his --these were words best omitted
other side; --all these, with the cries of the headsmen and harpooneers, and
the shuddering gasps of the oarsmen, with the wondrous sight of the ivory
say, and burst all your livers and lungs!  But what it was that inscrutable
devil are you hurrying about?  Softly, softly, and steadily, my men.  Only
--merry's the word.  Pull, babes --pull, sucklings -- pull, all.  But what the
solace the languishing interval with his pipe.  He withdrew it from his
not the dead man's ghost encountering
the first unknown phantom in the other world; --neither of these can feel
stranger and stronger emotions than that man does, who for the first time
-- He's got fits, that
this was against all rule; for the oarsmen must put out their eyes, and ram
more visible, owing to the increasing darkness of the dun cloud-shadows flung
upon the sea.  The jets of vapor no longer blended, but tilted everywhere to
right and left; the whales seemed separating their wakes.  The boats were
mechanically retained between his teeth, at a short distance, followed after
     far off upon the sea; and finally fell to rearing and plunging in the boat's

could scarcely be worked rapidly enough to escape being torn from the
row-locks.  Soon we were running through a suffusing wide veil of mist;
neither ship nor boat to be seen.  Give way, men, whispered Starbuck, drawing
still further aft the sheet of his sail; there is time to kill a fish yet
from his head, and stamped up and down on it; then picking it up, flirted it
     Sing out and say something, my hearties.  Roar and pull, my thunderbolts!
other boats had got fast; but hardly were they overheard, when with a
lightning-like hurtling whisper Starbuck said: Stand up!  and Queequeg,

intervals startlingly pierced by one of his peculiar whispers, now harsh with
on the intense countenance of the mate in the stern of the boat, they knew
that the imminent instant had come; they heard, too, an enormous wallowing
sound as of fifty elephants stirring in their litter.  Meanwhile the boat was
did his crew say anything to him.  Only the silence of the boat was at
the erected crests of enraged serpents.  That's his hump.  There, there,
his broad back, flaxen-haired flask seemed a snow-flake.  The bearer looked
darted straight ahead of the bow, almost seemed as two visible needles in two
interblending bubbles borne down a rapid stream from the hills.  Pull, pull,
But it bade far to outstrip them; it flew on and on, as a mass of
boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled water and air.
gush of scalding vapor shot up near by; something rolled and tumbled like an
earthquake beneath us.  The whole crew were half suffocated as they were
tossed helter-skelter into the white curdling cream of the squall.  Squall,
waves, that almost seemed threatening to cut it in two; the sudden profound
Seen in advance of all the other indications, the puffs of vapor they spouted,
     and partially beneath a thin layer of water, also, the whales were swimming.
gunwale, tumbled back to our places.  There we sat up to our knees in the sea,

The air around suddenly vibrated and tingled, as it were, like the air over
the suspended craft seemed a coral boat grown up to us from the bottom of the
ocean.  The wind increased to a howl; the waves dashed their bucklers
together; the whole squall roared, forked, and crackled around us like a
whale, and harpoon had all blended together; and the whale, merely grazed by
blowing off to leeward, like the confused scud from white rolling billows.
been visible at that moment; nothing but a troubled bit of greenish white
that storm.  Meanwhile the driving scud, rack, and mist, grew darker with the
shadows of night; no sign of the ship could be seen.  The rising sea forbade
crying out in a quick phrensy of hurry, Down, down all, and give way! --there
     whose eyes had been setting to windward like two fixed stars, suddenly
water-proof match keg, after many failures Starbuck contrived to ignite the
negro, stooping a little, presented his flat palm to Flask's foot, and then

that imbecile candle in the heart of that almighty forlornness.  There, then,
he sat, the sign and symbol of a man without faith, hopelessly holding up hope
hatband, where he always wore it aslant like a feather.  He loaded it, and
.. <p 223 >
mist still spread over the sea, the empty lantern lay crushed in the bottom
of the boat.  Suddenly Queequeg started to his feet, hollowing his hand to his
not alter her tides and her seasons for that.  Meanwhile Stubb, the third mate,
the storm.  The sound came nearer and nearer; the thick mists were dimly
parted by
Passion and Vanity stamping the living magnanimous earth, but the earth did
heave did he thereby give to the negro's lordly chest.  So have I seen
last loomed into view, bearing right down upon us within a distance of not
much more than its length.  Floating on the waves we saw the abandoned boat, as
give it to him!  whispered Starbuck.  A short rushing sound leaped out of the
the base of a cataract; and then the vast hull rolled over it, and it was
seen no more till it came up weltering astern.  Again we swam for it, were
himself with a cool, indifferent, easy, unthought of, barbaric majesty, the
Flask mounted upon gigantic Daggoo was yet more curious; for sustaining
their fish and returned to the ship in good time.  The ship had given us up,
but was still cruising, if haply it might light upon some token of our
and cross-running seas.  Still more strange to see him giddily perched upon
himself should toss, with one dexterous fling landed the little man high and
putting Flask's hand on his hearse-plumed head and bidding him spring as he
lamp in the lantern; then stretching it on a waif pole, handed it to Queequeg
     Good a mast-head as any, sir.  Will you mount?  That I will, and thank ye

     for a vast practical joke, though the wit thereof he but dimly discerns,
.. <p 220 >
However, nothing dispirits, and nothing seems worth while disputing.  He bolts
and more than suspects that the joke is at nobody's expense but his own.
down all events, all creeds, and beliefs, and persuasions, all hard things
visible and invisible, never mind how knobby; as an ostrich of potent
for a pedestal.
Upon this, Daggoo, with either hand upon the gunwale to steady his way,
these, and death itself, seem to him only sly, good-natured hits, and jolly
punches in the side bestowed by the unseen and unaccountable old joker.  That
can't see three seas off; tip us up an oar there, and let me on to that.
all but her trucks.  But little King-Post was small and short, and at the
seems but a part of the general
that what just before might have seemed to him a thing most momentous, now
more spacious than the palm of a man's hand, and standing upon such a base
platform.  it is used for catching turns with the whale line.  Its top is not
sort of genial, desperado philosophy; and with it I now regarded this whole
voyage of the Pequod, and the great White Whale its object.  Queequeg, said
whale.  The dancing white water made by the chase was now becoming more and
white fire upon the prairie, in which, unconsumed, we were burning; immortal
height of a whaleman's discretion?  Certain.  I've lowered for whales from a
boat.  now, with the subordinate phantoms, what wonder remained soon waned
involve the remotest suspicion as to any boat's crew being assigned to that
leaking ship in a gale off Cape Horn.  Mr. Flask, said I, turning to
hunt that mortal monster in person.  But such a supposition did by no means
little King-Post, who was standing close by; you are experienced in these
particular preparative heedfulness in Ahab must only be with a view to the
interest and curiosity at the time.  But almost everybody supposed that this
ships themselves often pick up such queer castaway creatures found tossing
not create any unsubduable excitement in the forecastle.  But be all this as
straightened it a little there; all these things, I say, had awakened much
place among the crew, though still as it were somehow distinct from them,
the side and step down into the cabin to chat with the captain, and it would
exactly shaping the thigh board, or clumsy cleat, as it is sometimes called,
tie he soon evinced himself to be linked with Ahab's peculiar fortunes; nay,
so far as to have some sort of a half-hinted influence; Heaven knows, but
line is running out are pinned over the groove in the bow: when all this was
.. <p 229 >
cutting the small wooden skewers, which when the
devil fetch the hindmost.
domestic people in the temperate zone only see in their dreams, and that but
dimly; but the like of whom now and then glide among the unchanging Asiatic
     for what was thought to be one of the spare boats, and even solicitously

family vault.  now then, thought i, unconsciously rolling up the sleeves of
our own particular boat was chiefly to be
generations, when the memory of the first man was a distinct recollection,
found bestirring himself in the matter of making thole-pins with his own hands
real phantoms, and asked of the sun and the moon why they were created and to
unaccountable odds and ends of strange nations come up from the unknown nooks
what end; when though, according to genesis, the angels indeed consorted
hinted his desires on that head.  Nevertheless he had taken private measures
Therefore he had not solicited a boat's crew from them, nor had he in any way
him as a regular headsman in the hunt --above all for Captain Ahab to be
of the chase, for the sake of being near the scene of action and giving his
circumstances is it wise for any maimed man to enter a whale-boat in the
sail, the ivory Pequod had slowly swept across four several cruising-grounds;
that off the Azores; off the Cape de Verdes; on the Plate (so called),
that every individual moment, indeed, then comprises a peril; under these
unstaked, watery locality, southerly from St.  Helena.  It was while gliding
through these latter waters that one serene and moonlight night, when all
But with Ahab the question assumed a modified aspect.  Considering that with
invaluable life of his ought to be carried into the thickest of the fight.
silent night a silvery jet was seen far in advance of the white bubbles at
the bow.  Lit up by the moon, it looked celestial; seemed some plumed and
So Tamerlane's soldiers often argued with tears in their eyes, whether that
Among whale-wise people it has often been argued whether, considering the
and stand a look-out there, with the same precision as if it had been day.
And yet, though herds of whales were seen by night, not one whaleman
Flask.  If his leg were off at the hip, now, it would be a different thing.
in a hundred would venture a lowering for them.  You may think with what
emotions, then, the seamen beheld this old Oriental perched aloft at such
unusual hours; his turban and the moon, companions in one sky.  But when,
.. <p 228 >
with the daughters of men, the devils also, add the uncanonical Rabbins,
voice was heard announcing that silvery, moon-lit jet, every reclining
account, said
it, Flask!  cried Stubb; if I had but one leg you would not catch me in a
judgment blown, they could not have quivered more; yet still they felt no
terror; rather pleasure.  for though it was a most unwonted hour, yet so
     Who would have thought

side-lunging strides, Ahab commanded the t'gallant sails and royals to be set,
.. < chapter L 27  AHAB'S BOAT AND CREW.  FEDALLAH >
.. <p 227 >
Then, with every mast-head manned, the piled-up craft rolled down before the
wind.  The strange, upheaving, lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling
the hollows of so many sails, made the buoyant, hovering deck to feel like
an indifferent air concerning Fedallah.  He was such a creature as civilized,
days still preserve much of the ghostly aboriginalness of earth's primal
to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal.  And had you watched Ahab's face
that night, you would have thought that in him also two different things were
warring.  While his one live leg made lively echoes along the deck, every
like a quiet ghost with a clean conscience sitting inside the bars of a snug
Lazarus lived after his resurrection; a supplementary clean gain of so many
Besides, all the days I should now live would be as good as the days that
like arrows, the eager glances shot, yet the silvery jet was no more seen
that night.  Every sailor swore he saw it once, but not a second time.  This
midnight-spout had almost grown a forgotten thing, when, some days after, lo!
had done the same thing.  After the ceremony was concluded upon the present
fond of that diversion.  This was the fourth time in my nautical life that I
statement of the entire case.  Considering, therefore, that squalls and
     Queequeg, said I, come along, you shall be my lawyer, executor, and

or starlight, as the case might be; disappearing again for one whole day, or
two days, or three; and somehow seeming at every distinct repetition to be

imputed to Starbuck's driving on to his whale almost in the teeth of a squall,
in accordance with the preternaturalness, as it seemed, which in many
things invested the Pequod, were there wanting some of the seamen who swore
that whenever and wherever descried; at however remote times, or in however
.. <p 227 >
     insulated, immemorial, unalterable countries, which even in these modern
     sense of peculiar dread at this flitting apparition, as if it were
back-foremost into death's jaws?  Can't you twist that smaller?  said Flask.
into the hands of him who steered the boat --oftentimes a fellow who at that
round upon us, and rend us at last in the remotest and most savage seas.
had never been.  And so it served us night after night, till no one heeded it
its blue blandness, some thought there lurked a devilish charm, as for days
mind that!  here then, from three impartial witnesses, i had a deliberate
     Yes, that's the law.  I should like to see a boat's crew backing water up to a

life before our urn-like prow.  But, at last, when turning to the eastward,
the Cape winds began howling around us, and we rose and fell upon the long,
the blast, and gored the dark waves in her madness, till, like showers of
treacherously beckoning us on and on, in order that the monster might turn
troubled seas that are there; when the ivory-tusked Pequod sharply bowed to
vacuity of life went away, but gave place to sights more dismal than before.
yet that hair-turbaned Fedallah remained a muffled mystery to the last.
without uttering a single sound; when, after all this silence, his unearthly
bred.  Cape of Good Hope, do they call ye?  Rather Cape Tormentoto, as called
everlastingly without any haven in store, or beat that black air without any
of yore; for long allured by the perfidious silences that before had attended
proud feelings; but whereto does all that circumnavigation conduct?  Only
round the world!  Round the world!  There is much in that sound to inspire
her headway, he cried out in his old lion voice, -- Up helm!  Keep her off
.. <p 236 >
far mysteries we dream of, or in tormented chase of that demon phantom that,
had been holding the ship in the wind to diminish
shudder, sleeping in this gale, still thou steadfastly eyest thy purpose.
some time or other, swims before all human hearts; while chasing such over
that we left behind secure, were all the time before us.  Were this world an
old man had ever before evinced.  But turning to the steersman, who thus far
murmured Ahab, gazing over into the water.  There seemed but little in the
often before have noticed a similar sight, yet, to any monomaniac man, the
accordance with their singular ways, shoals of small harmless fish, that for
At that moment the two wakes were fairly crossed, and instantly, then, in
advantage of his windward position, he again seized his trumpet, and knowing
board the stranger, had not the threatening wind forbade.  But taking
moment paused; it almost seemed as though he would have lowered a boat to
first mere mention of the White Whale's name to another ship, Ahab for a
storms.  But even had this not been the case, he would not after all,
perhaps, have boarded her --judging by his subsequent conduct on similar
look-outs, while the quarter-deck hail was being heard from below.  Ship
fishermen, mildly eyeing us as they passed, said not one word to our own
and though, when the ship slowly glided close under our stern, we six men in
.. <p 235 >

here of the peculiar usages of whaling-vessels when meeting each other in
foreign seas, and especially on a common cruising-ground.  If two strangers
beasts, so torn and bepatched the raiment that had survived nearly four years
Only her lower sails were set.  A wild sight it was to see her long-bearded
rigging were like the thick branches of trees furred over with hoar-frost.
casually encountering each other in such inhospitable wilds, these twain, for
the life of them, cannot well avoid a mutual salutation; and stopping for a
moment to interchange the news; and, perhaps, sitting down for a while and
home.  As if the waves had been fullers, this craft was bleached like the
a tyro in the far ocean fisheries --a whaler at sea, and long absent from
ahead, the Goney (Albatross) by name.  As she slowly drew nigh, from my lofty
other at the ends of the earth --off lone Fanning's Island, or the far away
     South-eastward from the Cape, off the
these ships should not only interchange hails, but come into still closer,
more friendly and sociable contact.  And especially would this seem to be a

.. <p 234 >
about.  For the long absent ship, the outward-bounder, perhaps, has letters
against the leaping waves, each man had slipped himself into a sort of
on board; at any rate, she will be sure to let her have some papers of a date
other; and consequently, have all sorts of dear domestic things to talk
     tightly clenched hand.  Though the body was erect, the head was thrown back

destined, a thing of the utmost importance to her.  And in degree, all this
his very eyelashes together.  Meantime, the crew driven from the forward
and currents which have previously been spoken of.  His lantern swung from his
and coat.  On the table beside him lay unrolled one of those charts of tides
now far remote vessel; and some of those letters may be for the people of the
barometer stood, he saw him with closed eyes sitting straight in his
Starbuck forget the old man's aspect, when one night going down into the cabin
demanding repose he would not seek that repose in his hammock.  Never could
part of the ship by the perilous seas that burstingly broke over its bows,
     wax, day after day tore on through all the swift madness and gladness of the

Though, to be sure, from the small number of English whalers, such meetings
addressed his mates.  In tempestuous times like these, after everything above
both parties speak one language, as is the case with Americans and English.
sailors, but likewise with all the peculiar congenialities arising from a
bowline secured to the rail, in which he swung as in a loosened belt.  Few or
but himself.  Besides, the English whalers sometimes affect a kind of
dangerous deck, manifested the gloomiest reserve; and more seldom than ever
metropolitan superiority over the American whalers; regarding the long, lean
feathers to the sky; still beckoning us on from before, the solitary jet
sort of shyness between them; for your Englishman is rather
through numberless perils to the very point whence we started, where those
firmly grasping a shroud, Ahab for hours and hours would stand gazing dead to
and aloft has been secured, nothing more can be done but passively to await
do not very often occur, and when they do occur there is too apt to be a
foibles himself.  So, then, we see that of all ships separately sailing the
sea, the whalers have most reason to be sociable --and they are so.  Whereas,
some merchant ships crossing each other's wake in the mid-Atlantic, will
whelmed.
this round globe, they either lead us on in barren mazes or midway leave us
horizon.  But calm, snow-white, and unvarying; still directing its fountain of
through such a string of silly bowings and scrapings, such a ducking of
would be hard to say, seeing that the Yankees in one day, collectively, kill
will hold true concerning whaling vessels crossing each other's track on the
     And as for Pirates, when they chance to cross each other's cross-bones, the
barrels?  And that question once answered, pirates straightway steer apart,
has a Gam, a thing so utterly unknown to all other ships that they never
reached the ears of Captain Ahab or his mates.  For that secret part of the
property of three confederate white seamen of that ship, one of whom, it
seems, communicated it to Tashtego with Romish injunctions of secresy, but
story was unknown to the captain of the Town-Ho himself.  It was the private
     This latter circumstance, with its own particular accompaniments, forming

the Pequod who came to the full knowledge of it, and by such a strange
delicacy, to call it so, were they governed in this matter, that they kept
the following night Tashtego rambled in his sleep, and revealed so much of it
main-mast.  Interweaving in its proper place this darker thread with the story
the secret among themselves so that it never transpired abaft the Pequod's
proceed to put on lasting record.  For my humor's sake, I shall preserve the
heightened by a circumstance of the Town-Ho's story, which seemed obscurely
.. <p 241 >
Goney that another
anywhere in his boat, he always sits in the stern sheets on a comfortable,
to involve with the whale a certain wondrous, inverted visitation of one of
occasionally put, and which are duly answered at the time.  Some two years
     The Cape of Good Hope, and all the watery region round about there, is much

professions have their own little peculiarities of detail; so has the whale
Whaler of Nantucket, was cruising in your Pacific here, not very many days'
sail westward from the eaves of this good Golden Inn.  She was somewhere to
the northward of the Line.  One morning upon handling the pumps, according to
     ( As told at the Golden Inn.)

captain, having some unusual reason for believing that rare good luck awaited
him in those latitudes; and therefore being very averse to quit them, and
the leak not being then considered at all dangerous, though, indeed, they
.. < chapter liv 26  THE TOWN-HO'S STORY >
.. <p 240 >
were on the closer terms with me; and hence the interluding questions they
they exchange visits by boats' crews: the two captains remaining, for the
critical moment or two, in a sudden squall say --to seize hold of the nearest
authenticated ones too, where the captain has been known for an uncommonly
his hull hove out and repaired.  Though no small passage was before her, yet,
if the commonest chance favored, he did not at all fear that his ship would
buoyant self-command, he generally carries his hands in his trowsers'
periodically relieved at them, those six-and-thirty men of his could easily
keep the ship free; never mind if the leak should double on her.  In truth,
well nigh the whole of this passage being attended by very prosperous breezes,
catching hold of anything with his hands; indeed, as token of his entire,
nothing without corresponding breadth.  Merely make a spread angle of two
what may be called the secret part of the tragedy about to be narrated, never
overbearing of Radney, the mate, a Vineyarder, and the bitterly provoked
of the boat will often go far to topple him, because length of foundation is
maintaining his legs.  nor is this any very easy matter; for in his rear is
And often you will notice that being conscious of the eyes of the whole
.. <p 240 >
of all that.  Now, gentlemen, in square-sail brigs and three-masted ships,
well-nigh as large and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to
     complete boat's crew must leave the ship, and hence as the boat steerer or

superior altitude.  Hence, I conclude, that in boasting himself to be high
freebooting impressions popularly connected with the open ocean.  For in their
like gouty old aldermen in patent chairs.  And as for a tiller, the
High times indeed, if whaling captains were wheeled about the water on castors
     milliner's tiller decorated with gay cords and ribbons.  But the whale-boat
rimmed varieties of races and of climes.  They contain round archipelagoes of
romantic isles, even as the Polynesian waters do; in large part, are shored

feeling towards Whale-ships; this is a question it would be hard to answer.
dotted all round their banks; here and there are frowned upon by batteries,
Golden Inn.  Of those fine cavaliers, the young Dons, Pedro and Sebastian,
thunderings of naval victories; at intervals, they yield their beaches to
wild barbarians, whose red painted faces flash from out their peltry wigwams;
another little item about Gamming which must not be forgotten here.  All
days went by, and not only was the leak yet undiscovered, but it sensibly
the gaunt pines stand like serried lines of kings in Gothic genealogies;
those same woods harboring wild Afric beasts of prey, and silken creatures
whose exported furs give robes to Tartar Emperors; they mirror the paved
Whale-ships, generally on a cruising-ground; when, after exchanging hails,
     Nevertheless, this same expressive word has now for many years been in
steamer, and the beech canoe; they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts
as direful as any that lash the salted wave; they know what shipwrecks are,

midnight ship with all its shrieking crew.  Thus, gentlemen, though an
inlander, Steelkilt was wild-ocean born, and wild-ocean nurtured; as much
of an audacious mariner as any.  And for Radney, though in his infancy he may
Johnson never attained to that erudition; Noah Webster's ark does not hold it.
.. <p 243 >
man is elevated in that odd fashion, he has no proper foundation for his
contemplative Pacific; yet was he quite as vengeful and full of social
quarrel as the backwoods seaman, fresh from the latitudes of buck-horn
handled Bowie-knives.  Yet was this Nantucketer a man with some good-hearted
traits; and this Lakeman, a mariner, who though a sort of devil indeed,
might yet by inflexible firmness, only tempered by that common decency of
Because, in the case of pirates, say, I should like to know whether that
.. <p 242 >
treated, this Steelkilt had long been retained harmless and docile.  At all
events, he had proved so thus far; but Radney was doomed and made mad, and
Pirates and Man-of-War's men, and Slave-ship sailors, cherish such a scornful
.. <p 239 >
Town-Ho's leak seemed again increasing, but only so as to require an hour or
heard of the name even; and if by chance they should hear of it, they only
ocean like our Atlantic, for example, some skippers think little of pumping
their whole way across it; though of a still, sleepy night, should the
officer of the deck happen to forget his duty in that respect, the
also all
and savage seas far from you to the westward, gentlemen, is it altogether
on account of all hands gently subsiding to the bottom.  Nor in the solitary
unusual for ships to keep clanging at their pump-handles in full chorus even
     and such like pretty exclamations.  Why it is that all Merchant-seamen, and

only when a leaky vessel is in some very out of the way part of those waters,
some really landless latitude, that her captain begins to feel a little
more at the pumps every day.  You must know that in a settled and civilized
several of her company; especially by radney the mate.  He commanded the
upper sails to be well hoisted, sheeted home anew, and every way expanded to
working at the pumps at wide and easy intervals; but no good luck came; more
without the occurrence of the least fatality, had it not been for the brutal
account of his being a part owner in her.  So when they were working that
evening at the pumps, there was on this head no small gamesomeness slily
going on among them, as they stood with their feet continually overflowed by
gentlemen, stole over Steelkilt.  Therefore, in his ordinary tone, only a
little broken by the bodily exhaustion he was temporarily in, he answered him
or nothing all day.  To this, Radney replied with an oath, in a most
really valiant men even when aggrieved --this nameless phantom feeling,
any already ireful being --a repugnance most felt, when felt at all, by
.. <p 247 >
as he was by his spasmodic toil at the pumps, for all his first nameless
feeling of forbearance the sweating Steelkilt could but ill brook this bearing
in the mate; but somehow still smothering the conflagration within him,
saying that sweeping the deck was not his business, and he would not do it.
incensed Radney shook the hammer within a few inches of his face, furiously
moment, and as he steadfastly looked into the mate's malignant eye and
round the windlass, steadily followed by the mate with his menacing hammer,
comprehended when the mate uttered his command.  But as he sat still for a
Radney had spat in his face.  Any man who has gone sailor in a whale-ship will
intimation with his twisted hand he warned off the foolish and infatuated man;
between the two men.  But there was more than this: the order about the
all these particulars so that you may understand exactly how this affair stood
the customary sweepers; who, not being billeted at the pumps, had done little
model of his nose." "Damn your eyes!  what's that pump stopping for?" roared
     with truly nautical duties, such being the case with his comrades.  I mention
windlass; when, resolved at last no longer to retreat, bethinking him that
invested in looking-glasses.  I wonder if he'd give a poor devil like me the

consequently he should have been freed from any trivial business not connected
insufferable maledictions.  Retreating not the thousandth part of an inch;
stabbing him in the eye with the unflinching poniard of his glance,
steelkilt, clenching his right hand behind him and creepingly drawing it back,
Steelkilt had been regularly assigned captain of one of the gangs;
the stronger men in the Town-Ho that had been divided into gangs, taking
without speaking he remained doggedly rooted to his seat, till at last the
but raging gales is regularly attended to every evening; it has been known to
sweeping a ship's deck at sea is a piece of household work which in all times
and sweep down the planks, and also a shovel, and remove some offensive
the backstays leading far aloft to where two of his comrades were standing
their mast-heads.  They were both Canallers.  "Canallers!" cried Don Pedro,
Intolerably striding along the deck, the mate commanded him to get a broom
belonging to our grand Erie Canal.  You must have heard of it." "Nay, Senor;
fiend it was, gentlemen, that possessed Radney to meddle with such a man in
bloodshot, and wiping the profuse sweat from his brow.  Now what cozening
the job; he's come back again with a gang of ship-carpenters, saw-fish, and
of the hull and tow it home.  The fact is, boys, that sword-fish only began
heard which denotes the fullest tension of life's utmost energies.  Quitting
 "Aye, aye, sir," said Steelkilt, merry as a cricket.  "Lively, boys, lively,
.. <p 246 >

the pump at last, with the rest of his band, the Lakeman went forward all
the state of New York; through numerous populous cities and most thriving
     Radney, pretending not to have heard the sailors' talk.  "Thunder away at it!"

contrasting scenery of those noble Mohawk counties; and especially, by rows of
father.  But Radney, the mate, was ugly as a mule; yet as hardy, as stubborn,
snow-white chapels, whose spires stand almost like milestones, flows one
he had now forborne as much as comported with his humor, the Lakeman paused
through sun and shade; by happy hearts or broken; through all the wide
next door to you; under the long-flung shadow, and the snug patronizing lee
flowing golden beard like the tasseled housings of your last viceroy's
Rad were here now, I'd tell him to jump overboard and scatter 'em.  They're
cutting and slashing at the bottom; making improvements, I suppose.  If old
that they ever encamp around the halls of justice, so sinners, gentlemen,
most abound in holiest vicinities.  "Is that a friar passing?" said Don
file-fish, and what not; and the whole posse of 'em are now hard at work
conceives an unconquerable dislike and bitterness; and if he have a chance
laughed Don Sebastian.  "Proceed, Senor." "A moment!  Pardon!" cried another
of the company.  "In the name of all us Limeese, I but desire to express to
substituting present Lima for distant Venice in your corrupt comparison.  Oh!
true Ashantee, gentlemen; there howl your pagans; where you ever find them,
little of your vigorous North." "Aye?  Well then, Don, refill my cup.  Your
 "Aye, aye, my merry lads, it's a lively leak this; hold a cannikin, one of
So, too, Venice; I have been there; the holy city of the blessed evangelist,
St.  Mark! --St.  Dominic, purge it!  Your cup!  Thanks: here I refill;  now,
in command over his fellow-men finds one of them to be very significantly his
as malicious.  He did not love Steelkilt, and Steelkilt knew it.  Espying the
conventional world of ours --watery or otherwise; that when a person placed
coming still closer to him, where the Lakeman stood fixed, now shook the
wicked is he.  Like Mark Antony, for days and days along his green-turfed,
flowery Nile, he indolently floats, openly toying with his red-cheeked
he will pull down and pulverize that subaltern's tower, and make a little
this effeminacy is dashed.  The brigandish guise which the Canaller so proudly
sports; his slouched and gaily-ribboned hat betoken his grand features.  A
swart visage and bold swagger are not unshunned in cities.  Once a vagabond on
villages; through long, dismal, uninhabited swamps, and affluent, cultivated
plentiful than billiard-tables, and for ever open--and Corrupt as Lima.
prime redeeming qualities of your man of violence, that at times he has as
stiff an arm to back a poor stranger in a strait, as to plunder a wealthy
would murder him.  But, gentlemen, the fool had been branded for the slaughter
.. <p 245 >
its most finished graduates, and that scarce any race of mankind, except
you.  Take that hammer away, or look to yourself."  But the predestinated mate
you, sir sailor, that we have by no means overlooked your delicacy in not

     But sliding down the ropes like baleful comets, the two Canallers rushed into
.. <p 253 >
have shipped for the cruise, d'ye see; now as you well know, sir, we can
last hailed him, and maddened by his long entombment in a place as black as
of seven of his former associates, and stung by the mocking voice that had
 "Oh!  certainly," said the Captain and the key clicked.  It was at this
Captain with a heartless jeer.  "Shut us up again, will ye!" cried Steelkilt.
mincing knives (long, crescentic, heavy implements with a handle at each end)
and betake himself where he belonged.  On the fifth morning three others of
     fears of ultimate retribution, had constrained them to surrender at
desperation possible, seize the ship.  For himself, he would do this, he said,
point, gentlemen, that enraged by the defection
that den.  but the scheme met with no opposition on the part of the other two;

The fetid closeness of the air, and a famishing diet, united perhaps to some
handspikes, my hearties.  Captain, by God, look to yourself; say the word;
the bowels of despair; it was then that Steelkilt proposed to the two
four men burst up from the forecastle, saying they were ready to turn to.
returned to the quarter-deck.  Twice every day for three days this was
himself; particularly as his two comrades would not yield, the one to the
after it; when again turning the key upon them and pocketing it, the Captain
upon being the first man on deck, when the time to make the rush should come.
these miscreants must come out.  Upon hearing the frantic project of their
ship.  at sunrise the captain went forward, and knocking on the deck,
upon the same piece of treachery, namely: to be foremost in breaking out,
clanking at intervals through the dreary night dismally resounded through the
and aft, especially about the forecastle scuttle and fore hatchway; at which
our fault; we didn't want it; I told him to take his hammer away; it was
them to the last, they in some way, by some subtle chemistry of villany,
neutral.  All night a wide-awake watch was kept by all the officers, forward
companion-way.  Then opening the slide a little, the Captain whispered
called for the steward to bring the heavy brass padlock, belonging to the
out for the Captain at midnight.  Thinking murder at hand, and smelling in
the dark for the blood, he and all his armed mates and harpooneers rushed for
.. <p 252 >
length, in obedience to Steelkilt, they preceded him down into their dark
and foot, the still struggling ringleader was shoved up into the air by his
perfidious allies, who at once claimed the
cried the ringleader to his men.  Most of them were against it; but at
against ye unless ye attack us; but till you say the word about not flogging
than kill ye, and be hung for such a shabby rascal, we won't lift a hand
were seized up into the mizen rigging, like three quarters of meat, and there
they hung till morning.  "Damn ye," cried the Captain, pacing to and fro
him a moment, and then said: --"I tell you what it is now, Captain, rather
claim our discharge as soon as the anchor is down; so we don't want a row;
taken no part in the mutiny, he told the former that he had a good mind to
flog them all round --thought, upon the whole, he would do so --he ought to
do; but gave the captain to understand distinctly, that his (Steelkilt's)
surrender, he would let them go with a reprimand, which he accordingly
     and we're your men; but we won't be flogged." "Turn to!  I make no
to the three men in the rigging --"for you, I mean to mince ye up for the
try-pots;" and, seizing a rope, he applied it with all his might to the backs

behind the barricade.  "come out of that, ye pirates!" roared the captain,
sprained with ye!" he cried, at last; "but there is still rope enough left
for you, my fine bantam, that wouldn't give up.  Take that gag from his mouth,
ain't those mincing knives down in the forecastle there, men?  look to those
boy's business; he might have known me before this; I told him not to prick
mutineer made a tremulous motion of his cramped jaws, and then painfully
twisting round his head, said in a sort of hiss, "What I say is this --and
of it with his pike, sought to prick out the object of his resentment.  But
What say ye, men?" turning to his comrades.  A fierce cheer was their
a man of us turns to, unless you swear not to raise a rope-yarn against us.
the stroke.  Steelkilt here hissed out something, inaudible to all but the
 "Turn to!  turn to! --I make no promise; --to your duty!  Do you want to sink
.. <p 251 >
whether they joined him or not.  That was the last night he should spend in
were hurrying to execute the order,
ensued; while standing out of harm's way, the valiant captain danced up and
barricade, and striding up and down there, defied the worst the pistols could
since the blow, he had lain in his berth; but that morning, hearing the
tumult on the deck, he had crept out, and thus far had watched the whole
anything in short but a surrender.  And what was more, they each insisted
might merit.  But when Steelkilt made known his determination still to lead
dared not attempt, he snatched the rope and advanced to his pinioned foe.
close up to the revolving border of the confusion, and prying into the heart
was in the very act of striking, when another hiss stayed his uplifted arm.
down with a whale-pike, calling upon his officers to manhandle that atrocious
had thought, now, that at your temperate North the generations were cold and
Others of the sailors joined with them in this attempt, and a twisted turmoil
below, a clamor was heard in the forecastle; and the two trembling traitors
pumps clanged as before.  Just after dark that day, when one watch had retired
running up, besieged the cabin door, saying they durst not consort with the
won't do it --let him go--cut him down: d'ye hear?"  But as the junior mates
would but admit one man at a time.  And here, gentlemen, the foul play of
as ready to change his berth for a boat, and with his bandaged mouth seek to
day his craft first struck the cruising ground; and Radney the mate was quite
her captain was just as willing to lower for a fish that moment, as on the
seems, in a boat.  And now his bandaged cry was, to beach him on the whale's
spear in hand, Radney sprang to the bow.  He was always a furious man, it
start; and none howled more fiercely with delight than did Steelkilt, as he
strained at his oar.  After a stiff pull, their harpooneer got fast, and,
of command.  Moreover, when the four boats were lowered, the mate's got the
his duty to sit next him, while Radney stood
The mutineer was the bowsman of the mate, and when fast to a fish, it was
spray, and, for an instant, was dimly seen through that veil, wildly seeking
struck as against a sunken ledge, and keeling over, spilled out the standing
sudden maelstrom; seized the swimmer between his jaws; and rearing high up
to remove himself from the eye of Moby Dick.  But the whale rushed round in a
     and with curses, the appalling beauty of the vast milky mass, that lit up by

himself in the end, shipmate?" and going to the mate, he looked at him
knife to the line.  He cut it; and the whale was free.  But, at some
mates, and harpooneers, who, undeterred by fearful rumors, were all anxious
shirt, caught in the teeth that had destroyed him.  All four boats gave chase
a phrensy.  "The White Whale --the White Whale!" was the cry from captain,
time, the Town-Ho reached her port --a savage, solitary place --where no
civilized creature resided.  There, headed by the Lakeman, all but five or
excitement of the moment, the Teneriffe man had instinctively and
it turned out, seizing a large double war-canoe of the savages, and setting
sail for some other harbor.  The ship's company being reduced to but a
I proceed. --Now, gentlemen, so suddenly perceiving the snowy whale within
looks faint; --fill up his empty glass!"  No need, gentlemen; one moment, and
Dons --nay, nay!  I cannot rehearse that now.  Let me get more into the air,
topmost back.  Nothing loath, his bowsman hauled him up and up, through a
a story." "How?  how!" cried all the young Spaniards, crowding.  "Nay, Dons,
and famous, and most deadly immortal monster, Don; --but that would be too long
there?" said a shipmate.  "What do you think?  what does it look like?"
they were in such a weakened condition that the captain durst not put off with
shouted out, "There she rolls!  there she rolls!"  Jesu, what a whale!  It
damning thing he would have done.  It was just between daybreak and sunrise of
Heaven itself seemed to step in to take out of his hands into its own the
revenge he had, and without being the avenger.  For by a mysterious fatality,
setting the sail of his best whale-boat, steered straight before the wind for
saved the would-be murderer from the bloody deed he had planned.  Yet complete
.. <p 257 >
come; and in
have touched at a low isle of corals.  He steered away from it; but the
savage craft bore down on him; and soon the voice of Steelkilt hailed him to
heave to, or he would run him under water.  the captain presented a pistol.
as he was tucking the coat into his hammock for a pillow.  Twenty-four hours
to scorn; assuring him that if the pistol so much as clicked in the lock, he
vigilance over their dangerous allies was this small
closely netted, partly rolled from the pocket of the Lakeman's monkey jacket,
--neither twine nor lanyard were seen again; but the next night an iron ball,
me board you a moment --I come in peace."  With that he leaped from the canoe,
swam to the boat; and climbing the gunwale, stood face to face with the
But a sudden, terrific, downward jerking of the boat, quickly brought his
any?"  But there was none in the forecastle.  "Then I must get some from old
island, and remain there six days.  If I do not, may lightnings strike me!"
"but I think it will answer.  Shipmate, I haven't enough twine, --have you
sea, he swam back to his comrades.  Watching the boat till it was fairly
beached, and drawn up to the roots of the cocoa-nut trees, Steelkilt made sail
 "Like a lanyard for your bag; but it's an odd one, seems to me." "Yes,
hard work they underwent, that upon the vessel being ready again for sea,
were providentially in want of precisely that number
braiding something very carefully in his watches below.  "What are you making
Steelkilt calculated his time, and found that his next trick at the helm
of their former captain, had he been at all minded to work them legal
retribution.  Some ten days after the French ships sailed, the whale-boat
attitude, it was well known, he sometimes dozed.  There was a considerable
     During the night, Radney had an unseamanlike way of sitting on the
schooner, he returned with them to his vessel; and finding all right there,
again resumed his cruisings.  Where Steelkilt now is, gentlemen, none know;

which refuses to give up its dead; still in dreams sees the awful white whale
that destroyed him.  "Are you through?" said Don Sebastian, quietly.  "I am,
     upon resuming the head of his watch at night.  Upon this, and one or two

get it from an unquestionable source?  Bear with me if I seem to press."
of his heart.  He was in Radney the chief mate's watch; and as if the
.. <p 256 >
Holy Evangelists in the Golden Inn, gentlemen?" "Nay," said Don Sebastian;
suit," cried the company, with exceeding interest.  "Is there a copy of the
private revenge upon the man who had stung him in the ventricles
would bury him in bubbles and foam.  "What do you want of me?  cried the
with him, plunged headlong again, and went down.  Meantime, at the first tap
 "So help me Heaven, and on my honor the story I have told ye, gentlemen, is
.. <p 261 >
Steelkilt since the death of Radney."
backs.  In another plate, the prodigious blunder is made of representing the
represented lying among ice-isles, with white bears running over their living
master.  In one of those plates the whales, like great rafts of logs, are
Spitzbergen in the ship Jonas in the Whale, Peter Peterson of Friesland,
the Spermaceti Whale Fisheries.  In this book is an outline purporting to be
a Picture of a Physeter or Spermaceti whale, drawn by scale from one killed
, entitled A Whaling Voyage to
a Dutch book of voyages, A. D.
though this sculpture is half man and half whale, so as only to give the tail
mention but one thing about it, let me say that it has an eye which applied,
Harris's collection of voyages there are some plates of whales extracted from
the eye of that whale a bow-window some five feet long.  Ah, my gallant
captain, why did ye not give us Jonah looking out of that eye!  Nor are the
these unprofessional attempts, let us glance at those pictures of leviathan
whale with perpendicular flukes.  Then again, there is an imposing quarto,
     Advancement of Learning you will find some curious whales.  But quitting all

, there are plates of an alleged whale and a narwhale.  I do not wish
.. <p 262 >
.. <p 263 >

this nineteenth century such a hippogriff could be palmed for genuine upon any
to seem inelegant, but this unsightly whale looks much like an amputated sow;
and other embellishments of some ancient books you will at times meet with
and in those days, and even down to a comparatively late period, dolphins
publisher somewhere about the 15th century, during the Revival of Learning;
antique vases.  Though universally denominated a dolphin, I nevertheless call
purely fabulous creature, imitated, I take it, from the like figures on
several pictures of the different species of the Leviathan.  All these are
Prodromus whales of the old Scotch Sibbald, and Jonah's whale, as depicted
Gate leading from the Thames by water into the Tower.  Then, there are the
touching that species, declares not to have its counterpart in nature.  But
the placing of the cap-sheaf to all this blundering business was reserved for
of that Hogarthian monster undulates on the surface, scarcely drawing one
     antediluvian Hindoo.  It is Guido's picture of Perseus rescuing Andromeda
published a Natural History of Whales, in which he gives what he calls a
picture of the Sperm Whale.  Before showing that picture to any Nantucketer,
very curious touches at the whale, where all manner of spouts, jets d'eau,

Christian painter's portrait of this fish; for he succeeds no better than the
whence he derived that picture, who can tell?  Perhaps he got it as his
scientific predecessor in the same field, Desmarest, got one of his
captain had this veracious picture taken for the benefit of his marines.  To
Vishnu in the form of leviathan, learnedly known as the Matse Avatar.  But
inform us.  As for the sign-painters' whales seen in the streets hanging over
the shops of oil-dealers, what shall be said of them?  They are generally
advert to those curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the
three or four sailor tarts, that is whaleboats full of mariners: their
deformities floundering in seas of blood and blue paint.  but these manifold
sort our noble profession
before any of them actually came into being.  No wonder then, that in some
stranded fish; and these are about as correct as a drawing of a wrecked ship,
ancient extant portrait anyways purporting to be the whale's, is to be found
but in many scientific presentations of him.  Now, by all odds, the most
its undashed pride of hull and spars.  Though elephants have stood for their
full-lengths, the living Leviathan has never yet fairly floated himself for
helmeted head like St.  George's; ever since then has something of the same
only to be seen at sea in unfathomable waters; and afloat the vast bulk of
him is out of sight, like a launched line-of-battle ship; and out of that
coins, the dolphin was drawn in scales of chain-armor like Saladin's, and a
be found among the oldest Hindoo, Egyptian, and Grecian sculptures.  For ever
him bodily into the air, so as to preserve all his mighty swells and
undulations.  And, not to speak of the highly presumable difference of
.. <p 241n. >
deck, such is then the outlandish, eel-like, limbered, varying shape of him,
that his precise expression the devil himself could not catch.  But it may be
written by one Captain Colnett, a Post Captain in the English navy, entitled

.. < chapter lv 7  OF THE MONSTROUS PICTURES OF WHALES >
curious things about this Leviathan, that his skeleton gives very little idea
of his general shape.  Though Jeremy Bentham's skeleton, which hangs for
.. <p 261 >
personal characteristics; yet nothing of this kind could be inferred from
yet, even in the case of one of those young sucking whales hoisted to a ship's
young and tender, free from the same heinousness of mistake.  Look at that
you had best provide for your summary retreat from Nantucket.  In a word,
covering.  However recklessly the whale may sometimes serve us, said
glassy level of a sea becalmed, the drooping unstarched sails of the
humorous Stubb one day, he can never be truly said to handle us without
lodged in their fleshy covering, as the human fingers in an artificial
powerless ship, and the inert mass of a dead whale, a conquered fortress,
all raging commotion; but behind, in admirable artistic contrast, is the
caught nigh the paddle-wheels of an ocean steamer.  Thus, the foreground is
excite the civil scepticism of some parlor men, is admirably correct and
leviathan is rushing through the deep, leaving tons of tumultuous white curds
sometimes carries on his pestilent back.  And all the while the thick-lipped
crabs, shell-fish, and other sea candies and maccaroni, which the Right Whale
abounding a smoke in the chimney, you would think there must be a brave
alongside the barnacled flank of a large running Right Whale, that rolls his
good a one.  In the second engraving, the boat is in the act of drawing
charge of crowned centaurs?  Not wholly unworthy of a place in that gallery,
of affright; while in the black stormy distance the ship is bearing down upon
seizing the picturesqueness of things seems to be peculiarly evinced in what
paintings and engravings they have of their whaling scenes.  With not one
spout-hole.
tenth of England's experience in the fishery, and not the thousandth part of
of the swimming crew are scattered about the whale in contrasting expressions
that of the Americans, they have nevertheless furnished both nations with the
seem entirely content with presenting the mechanical outline of things, such
the act of leaping, as if from a precipice.  The action of the whole thing is
oarsman, half shrouded by the incensed boiling spout of the whale, and in
in that prow, for that one single incomputable flash of time, you behold an
attacks on the Sperm and Right Whale.  In the first engraving a noble Sperm
miniatures of narwhales and porpoises, treats us to a series of classical
engravings of boat hooks, chopping knives, and grapnels; and with the
and taken from paintings by one Garnery.  Respectively, they represent
shivering world ninety-six fac-similes of magnified Arctic snow crystals.  I
mean no disparagement to the excellent voyager (I honor him for a veteran),
.. <p 267 >
procured for every crystal a sworn affidavit taken before a Greenland Justice
of the Peace.  In addition to those fine engravings from Garnery, there are
two other French engravings worthy of note, by some one who subscribes
in some details not the most correct, presentations of whales and whaling
by his living hunters.  But, taken for all in all, by far the finest, though
is not his fault though.  Of the Right Whale, the best outline pictures are in
Browne are pretty correct in contour; but they are wretchedly engraved.  That
whale hunt.  For the most part, the English and American whale draughtsmen
loosened sails of the ship, and the long leaves of the palms in the
either practically conversant with his subject, or else marvellously tutored
frontispiece, boats attacking Sperm Whales, though no doubt calculated to
under one of their few aspects of oriental repose.  The other engraving is
quite a different affair: the ship hove-to upon the open sea, and in the
very heart of the Leviathanic life, with a Right Whale alongside; the vessel
drawings of this whale are good, excepting the middle figure in the picture of
     Whale; Colnett's, Huggins's, Frederick Cuvier's, and Beale's.  In the

use; three oarsmen are just setting the mast in its hole; while from a
sudden roll of the sea, the little craft stands half-erect out of the water,

whale is going up like the smoke over a village of smithies; and to
whaler anchored, inshore, in a calm, and lazily taking water on board; the
    

.. < chapter lvii 23  OF WHALES IN PAINT; IN TEETH; IN WOOD; IN >
.. < chapter lvi 6  OF THE LESS ERRONEOUS PICTURES OF WHALES, AND THE TRUE >
SHEET-IRON; IN STONE; IN MOUNTAINS; IN STARS On Tower-hill, as you go down
be too fastidious in your curiosity touching this Leviathan.
needs conclude that the great Leviathan is that one creature in the world
sailors say) holding a painted board before him, representing the tragic
scene in which he lost his leg.  There are three whales and three boats; and
eternally stove and sunk by him.  Wherefore, it seems to me you had best not
going a whaling yourself; but by so doing, you run no small risk of being
these ten years, they tell me, has that man held up that picture, and
.. <p 266 >
that stump to an incredulous world.  But the time of his justification has now
to the London docks, you may have seen a crippled beggar (or kedger, as the
degree of exactness.  So there is no earthly way of finding out precisely what
the western clearings.  But, though for ever mounted on that stump, never a
windward, a black cloud, rising up with earnest of squalls and rains, seems
with the flag of capture lazily hanging from the whale-pole inserted into his
business.  But, in general, they toil with their jack-knives alone; and, with
civilization inevitably restores a man to that condition in which God placed
dentistical-looking implements, specially intended for the skrimshandering
even so these monsters swam, making a strange, grassy, cutting sound; and
of his one poor jack-knife, he will carve you a bit of bone sculpture, not
Venetian blind in their mouths, was in that manner separated from the water
seethingly advance their scythes through the long wet grass of marshy meads;
reminded one of mowers.  Seen from the mast-heads, especially when they paused
from the attack of a Sperm Whaler like the Pequod, with open jaws sluggishly
     so that we seemed to be sailing through boundless fields of ripe and golden

plains recumbent elephants without knowing them to be such, taking them for
plain, you will often discover images as of the petrified forms of the
swam through the brit, which, adhering to the fringing fibres of that wondrous
recognised at last, their immense magnitude renders it very hard really to
fell in with vast meadows of brit, the minute, yellow substance, upon which
     Steering north-eastward from the Crozetts, we
other respects, you can hardly regard any creatures of the deep with the same
feelings that you do those of the shore.  For though some old naturalists have

that escaped at the lip.  As morning mowers, who side by side slowly and
coming to specialties, where, for example, does the ocean furnish any fish
that in disposition answers to the sagacious kindness of the dog?  The
.. < chapter lviii 11  BRIT >
.. <p 272 >
of the seas have ever been regarded with emotions unspeakably unsocial and
repelling; though we know the sea to be an everlasting terra incognita, so
that Columbus sailed over numberless unknown worlds to discover his one
superficial western one; though, by vast odds, the most terrific of all mortal
Hydrus and the Flying Fish.  With a frigate's anchors for my bridle-bitts and
and joined the chase against the starry Cetus far beyond the utmost stretch of
consideration will teach, that however baby man may brag of his science and
skill, and however much, in a flattering future, that science and skill may
.. <p 272 >
and round
old Dutch savage, Albert Durer.  Wooden whales, or whales cut in profile out
     trace out great whales in the starry heavens, and boats in pursuit of them;
the Right Whale largely feeds.  For leagues and leagues it undulated round us,
though taking a broad general view of the thing, this may very well be; yet

chronicled them.  Nor when expandingly lifted by your subject, can you fail to
destroyed the wrecked ships of last year.  Yea, foolish mortals, Noah's flood
differ the sea and the land, that a miracle upon one is not a miracle upon
him, i.  e.  what is called savagery.  Your true whale-hunter is as much a
the other?  Preternatural terrors rested upon the Hebrews, when under the
leaving behind them endless swaths of blue upon the yellow sea.
latitude and longitude of your first stand-point, else so chance-like are
live sea swallows up ships and crews.  But not only is the sea such a foe to
man who is an alien to it, but it is also a fiend to its own offspring;
very impressions, man has lost that sense of the full awfulness of the sea
bare, blackened elevations of the soil; even so, often, with him, who for the
high broken cliffs masses of rock lie strewn in fantastic groupings upon the
churches you will see sheet-iron whales placed there for weather-cocks; but
of ships.  No mercy, no power but its own controls it.  Panting and snorting
like a mad battle steed that has lost its rider, the masterless ocean
overruns the globe.  Consider the subtleness of the sea; how its most dreaded
hung by the tail for knockers to the road-side door.  When the porter is
accuracy.  At some old gable-roofed country houses you will see brass whales
embellished shape of many species of sharks.  Consider, once more, the
great a trophy of human perseverance as a Latin lexicon.  For, with but a bit
make; nevertheless, by the continual repetition of these
and full of barbaric spirit and suggestiveness, as the prints of that fine
sea and the land; and do you not find a strange analogy to something in
turn to this green, gentle, and most docile earth; consider them both, the
which aboriginally belongs to it.  The first boat we read of, floated on an
is not yet subsided; two thirds of the fair world it yet covers.  Wherein
With the same marvellous patience, and with the same single shark's tooth,
application.  As with the Hawaiian savage, so with the white sailor-savage.
of broken sea-shell or a shark's tooth, that miraculous intricacy of wooden
universal cannibalism of the sea; all whose creatures prey upon each other,
such observations of the hills, that your precise, previous stand-point would
yourself?  For as this appalling ocean surrounds the verdant land, so in the
worse than the Persian host who murdered his own guests; sparing not the

alluring jet would be seen.  But one transparent blue morning, when a
and sinking, with some other particulars he narrates, in all this the two
any stagnant calm; when the long burnished sun-glade on the waters seemed a
correspond.  But much abatement is necessary with respect to the incredible
cuttle-fish, to which, indeed, in certain external respects it would seem to
Squid.  The manner in which the Bishop describes it, as alternately rising
length and breadth, of a glancing cream-color, lay floating on the water,
mysterious creature, here spoken of, it is included among the class of
disgorge what are supposed to be the detached arms of the squid; some of them
below the surface; and only by inference is it that any one can tell of what,
act of feeding, the spermaceti whale obtains his whole food in unknown zones
elsewhere presented, I have here to speak of the magical, sometimes horrible
particular whale he pursued; however this was, or whether his eagerness
slightly vapored with tar, not impregnated with it, as in the
that the great Kraken of Bishop Pontoppodan may ultimately resolve itself into
.. <p 277 >
declare it to be the largest animated thing in the ocean, yet very few of
convenient to the sailor for common ship use; yet, not only would the ordinary
quantity too much stiffen the whale-line for the close coiling to which it
must be subjected; but as most seamen are beginning to learn, tar in general
as silently following.  Whatever superstitions the sperm whalemen in general
Ahab said nothing; turning his boat, he sailed back to the vessel; the rest
     What was it, Sir?  said Flask.  The great live squid, which they say, few
the most vague ideas concerning its true nature and form;  notwithstanding,
more soft and elastic; and I will add (since there is an aesthetics in all
things), is much more handsome and becoming to the boat, than hemp.  Hemp is

seen Moby Dick and fought him, than to have seen thee, thou white ghost!
thickness.  At first sight, you would not think it so strong as it really is.
either sensation or instinct; but undulated there on the billows, an
a nest of anacondas, as if blindly to clutch at any hapless object within
equal to three tons.  In length, the common sperm whale-line measures
something over two hundred fathoms.  Towards the stern of the boat it is
spirally coiled away in the tub, not like the worm-pipe of a still though,
innumerable long arms radiating from its centre, and curling and twisting like
bulk he assigns it.  By some naturalists who have vaguely heard rumors of the
or minute vertical tube formed at the axis of the cheese.  As the least tangle
or kink in the coiling would, in running out, infallibly take somebody's arm,
all swiftly pulling towards their prey.  Soon it went down, and while, with
business, carrying the line high aloft and then reeving it downwards through a
of the ocean; and that the sperm whale, unlike other species, is supplied
gleamed.  It seemed not a whale; and yet is this Moby Dick?  thought Daggoo.
of one; the same line being continuously coiled in both tubs.  There is
perceive the white mass, than with a quick intensity he instantly gave orders
possible wrinkles and twists.  In the English boats two tubs are used instead
readily into the boat, and do not strain it so much; whereas, the American
some advantage in this; because these twin-tubs being so small they fit more
connect the ideas of mildness and repose with the first sight of the
his eager glance in the direction indicated aloft by the outstretched
.. <p 276 >
Ahab stood on the bowsprit, and with one hand pushed far behind in readiness
not very much of a concentrated one.  When the painted canvas cover is clapped
on the american line-tub, the boat looks as if it were pulling off with a
prodigious great wedding-cake to present to the whales.  Both ends of the line
-- There!  there again!  there she breaches!  right ahead!  The White Whale,
Again the phantom went down, but on re-appearing once more, with a
completely disengaged from everything.  This arrangement of the lower end is
golden finger laid across them, enjoining some secresy; when the slippered
it of an additional line from a neighboring boat, in case the stricken whale
necessary on two accounts.  First: In order to facilitate the fastening to
tub, nearly three feet in diameter and
higher, and disentangling itself from the azure, at last gleamed before our
In the distance, a great white mass lazily rose, and rising higher and
of the line in any way attached to the boat, and were the whale then to run
should sound so deep as to threaten to carry off the entire line originally
the line out to the end almost in a single, smoking minute as he sometimes
whale-line.  The line originally used in the fishery was of the best hemp,
whale-lines; for, though not so durable as hemp, it is stronger, and far
and some ten or twenty fathoms (called box-line) being coiled upon the box in
harpoon, by your side.
     terror, than though seated before your evening fire with a poker, and not a

     If to Starbuck the apparition of
composing the crew pull into the jaws of death, with a halter around every
in a slight festoon over the bows, and is then passed inside the boat again;
object.  When you see him 'quid, said the savage, honing his harpoon in the
silent, subtle, ever-present perils of life.  And if you be a philosopher,
the Squid was a thing of portents, to Queequeg it was quite a different
the Pequod's crew could hardly resist the spell of sleep induced by such a
though seated in the whale-boat, you would not at heart feel one whit more of
vacant sea.  For this part of the Indian Ocean through which we then were
     this is a thing which carries more of true terror than any other aspect of

in-shore ground off Peru.  It was my turn to stand at the foremast-head; and
voyaging is not what whalemen call a lively ground; that is, it affords
     and the ball, and the explosion; so the graceful repose of the line, as it

was exceedingly still and sultry, and with nothing special to engage them,
went out of my body; though my body still continued to sway as a pendulum
will, long after the power which first moved it is withdrawn.  Ere
and prophesies of the storm, is perhaps more awful than the storm itself;
.. <p 281 >
us lifelessly swung from the spars, and for every swing that we made there
was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman.  The waves, too, nodded
himself could never pierce you out.  Again: as the profound calm which only
west, and the sun over all.  Suddenly bubbles seemed bursting beneath my
escape being made a Mazeppa of, and run away with where the all-seeing sun
because the boat is rocking like a cradle, and you are pitched one way and
It is worse; for you cannot sit motionless in the heart of these perils,
an Ethiopian hue, glistening in the sun's rays like a mirror.  But lazily
every direction.  All the oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions; so
in the water like the capsized hull of a frigate, his broad, glossy back, of
his vapory jet, the whale looked like a portly burgher smoking his pipe of a
undulating in the trough of the sea, and ever and anon tranquilly spouting
some enchanter's wand, the sleepy ship and every sleeper in it all at once
and lost.  For, when the line is darting out, to be seated then in the boat,
the vessel, simultaneously with the three notes from aloft, shouted forth the
chronicled --of this man or that man being taken out of the boat by the line,
account for those repeated whaling disasters --some few of which are casually
his own order, he dashed the helm down before the helmsman could handle the
spokes.  The sudden exclamations of the crew must have alarmed the whale; and
harpoon; but previous to that connexion, the short-warp goes through sundry
and, like the six burghers of Calais before King Edward, the six men
not an oar should be used, and no man must speak but in whispers.  So seated
of a common quill, prevents it from slipping out.  From the chocks it hangs
contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings; he cannot be thus
any unknown instant the harpoon may be darted, and all these horrible
that thinking after all he might not as yet be alarmed, Ahab gave orders that
noiseless sails being set.  Presently, as we thus glided in chase, the
intricacies, and while straining his utmost at the oar, bethink him that at
sank out of sight like a tower swallowed up.  There go flukes!  was the cry,
mortal woman, for the first time, seat himself amid those hempen
and is then
boat in its complicated coils, twisting and writhing around it in almost
counted upon the honor of the capture.  It was obvious, now, that the whale
had at length become aware of his pursuers.  All silence of cautiousness was
the smoker's boat, and much nearer to it than to any of the others, Stubb
therefore no longer of use.  Paddles were dropped, and oars came loudly into
warm afternoon.  But that pipe, poor whale, was thy last.  As if struck by
attached to the short-warp --the rope which is immediately connected with the
.. <p 280 >
mad yeast which he brewed.  Start her, start her, my men!  Don't hurry
thunder-claps,  that's all, cried Stubb, spluttering out the smoke as he
we swiftly but silently paddled along; the calm not admitting of the
with my shoulders leaning against the slackened royal shrouds, to and
yourselves; take plenty of time --but start her; start her like
withstand it; in that dreamy mood losing all consciousness, at last my soul
But his wild screams were answered by others quite as wild.  Kee-hee!
Kee-hee!  yelled Daggoo, straining forwards and backwards on his seat,
and yells the keels cut the sea.  Meanwhile, Stubb retaining his place in the
by a few rapid blows against the gunwale, then again and again sent it into
the fish's flank.  When reaching far over the bow, Stubb slowly churned his
long sharp lance into the fish, and kept it there, carefully churning and
lance (by the line attached to it), Stubb straightened it again and again,
the whale.  Pull up --pull up!  he now cried to the bowsman, as the waning
of the excited headsman; as at every dart, hauling in upon his crooked
from the spiracle of the whale, and vehement puff after puff from the mouth
men.  And all the while, jet after jet of white smoke was agonizingly shot
ranging up for another fling.  The red tide now poured from all sides of the
alternately sterning out of the way of the whale's horrible wallow, and then
after dart into the flying fish; at the word of command, the boat
air of the day.  And now abating in his flurry, the whale once more rolled
holding its place.  The boat now flew through the boiling water like a shark
much ado blindly to struggle out from that phrensied twilight into the clear
his flank, Stubb, firmly planting his knee in the clumsy cleat, darted dart
boat up to him, while yet the boat was being towed on.  Soon ranging up by
of red wine, shot into the frighted air; and falling back again, ran dripping
down his motionless flanks into the sea.  His heart had burst!  He's dead,
bowsman!  and, facing round towards the whale, all hands began pulling the
out into view; surging from side to side; spasmodically dilating and
Pacifics seemed passed as they shot on their way, till at length the whale
double, in order to bring down his centre of gravity.  Whole Atlantics and
foam; and the tall form of Tashtego at the steering oar crouching almost
interior of the sperm whale's enormous head consists.  Though apparently the
most massive, it is by far the most buoyant part about him.  So that with ease
from within, even but of a little finger, the vibrating, cracking craft
own from his mouth, Stubb scattered the dead ashes over the water; and, for
pipe.  As the line passed round and round the loggerhead; so also, just
bows; a ceaseless whirling eddy in her wake; and, at the slightest motion
.. <p 285 >
pilot-boat.
being more tight than a harpstring, you would have thought the craft had two
extending the entire length of the upper part of the boat, and from its now
speed.  Besides, such is the breadth of the upper part of the front of his
that purpose.  Your hat, however, is the most convenient.
that, in the old Dutch fishery, a mop was used to dash the running line with
it round the loggerhead, whence, by reason of its increased rapid circlings,
dashed the sea-water into it.  More turns were taken, so that the line began
an enemy's sharp two-edged sword by the blade, and that enemy all the time
before reaching that point, it blisteringly passed through and through both
chapter.  According to the invariable usage of the fishery, the whale-boat
from his mouth.  Like desperadoes they tugged and they strained, till the
steersman, and the harpooneer or whale-fastener pulling the foremost oar,
the one known as the harpooneer-oar.  Now it needs a strong, nervous arm to
strike the first iron into the fish; for often, in what is called a long
head, and such the tapering cut-water formation of the lower part, that by
a hempen blue smoke now jetted up and mingled with the steady fumes from his
to set an example of superhuman activity to the rest, not only by incredible
water; in many other ships, a wooden piggin, or bailer, is set apart for
hurled.  Stern all!  The oarsmen backed water; the same moment something
pushes off from the ship, with the headsman or whale-killer as temporary
whale might have swallowed, and which he was fearful of breaking ere he
whale relaxed in his wrath.  Pull up! --close to!  and the boat ranged along
fifty fair chances for a dart, not five are successful; no wonder that so
.. <p 289 >
many hapless harpooneers are madly cursed and disrated; no wonder that some
many ship owners, whaling is but a losing concern; for it is the harpooneer
dangling, sharp-edged
know that when the second iron is thrown overboard, it thenceforth becomes a
coils of box line (mentioned in a preceding chapter) making this feat, in
or cutting them, and making a prodigious sensation in all directions.  Nor,
such an audacious enterprise, eight or ten loose second irons may be
simultaneously dangling about him.  For, of course, each boat is supplied with
hands.  Tumbled into the water, it accordingly is in such cases; the spare
movements, to pitch the second iron into him.  Nevertheless, as the second
becomes impossible for the harpooneer, however lightning-like in his
passages, in scenes hereafter to be painted.
one should draw out, the other may still retain a hold.  It is a doubling of
instantly after the other into the same whale; so that if, in the coming drag,
harpoons reposing in the crotch, respectively called the first and second
as a backwoodsman swings his rifle from the wall.  It is customary to have two
furnishing a rest for the wooden extremity of the harpoon, whose other
the speed of the whale as the before described exhaustion of the harpooneer
alluded to on a previous page deserves independent mention.  It is a notched
corpse in the sea; and it seemed hardly to budge at all, except at long
intervals; good evidence was hereby furnished of the enormousness of the mass
maintains the contrary, but all this is both foolish and unnecessary.  The
successful, then at the second critical instant, that is, when the whale
     Out of the trunk, the branches grow; out

forged along, as if laden with pig-lead in bulk.  Darkness came on; but
three lights up and down in the Pequod's main-rigging dimly guided our way;
thumbs and fingers, slowly toiled hour after hour upon that inert, sluggish
.. < chapter lxiii 2  THE CROTCH >
.. <p 288 >
bulwarks.  Vacantly eyeing the heaving whale for a moment, he issued the usual
orders for securing it for the night, and then handing his lantern to a
seaman, went his way into the cabin, and did not come forward again until
not from out of toil.
starts to run, the boat-header and harpooneer likewise start to running fore
majority of failures in the fishery, it has not by any means been so much
except under circumstances obvious to any fisherman.  I know that this would
till drawing nearer we saw Ahab dropping one of several more lanterns over the
we commenced the slow business of towing the trophy to the Pequod.  And now,
craft, takes his proper station in the bows of the boat.  Now, I care not who
we moved.  For, upon the great canal of Hang-Ho, or whatever they call it, in
were preparing to cast anchor in the deep; for heavy chains are being dragged
and aft, to the imminent jeopardy of themselves and every one else.  It is
by the head to the stern, and by the tail to the bows, the whale now lies
terror, skittishly curvetting about both boat and whale, entangling the lines,
the night, which obscured the spars and rigging aloft, the two --ship and
whale, seemed yoked together like colossal bullocks, whereof one reclines
while the other remains standing.  If moody Ahab was now all quiescence, at
with its black hull close to the vessel's, and seen through the darkness of
these qualities in him, as well as to the thousand concurring accidents of
unwonted bustle was he in that the staid Starbuck, his
yet to be slain; and though a thousand other whales were brought to his ship,
you would have thought from the sound on the Pequod's decks, that all hands
     a steak, ere I sleep!  You, Daggoo!  overboard you go, and cut me one from
designated by Stubb; comprising the tapering extremity of the body.  About
his small!  Here be it known, that though these wild fishermen do not, as a
lifting a rather reddish morsel to his mouth, don't you think this steak is
his head, so as to bring his best ear into play.  Cook, said Stubb, rapidly
bowed his arched back still further over, at the same time sideways inclining
.. <p 293 >
must keep quiet.  Blast me, if I can hear my own voice.  Away, cook, and
man that is tossed to them; and though, while the valiant butchers over the
rather overdone?  You've been beating this steak too much, cook; it's too
command, came to a dead stop on the opposite side of Stubb's sideboard;
knee-pans, which he did not keep well scoured like his other pans; this old
screw.  Though amid all the smoking horror and diabolism of a sea-fight,
leaning far over the side in a mumbling voice began addressing the sharks,
sideboard; now then, go and preach to 'em!  Sullenly taking the offered
galley, for, like many old blacks, there was something the matter with his
dish, as if stabbing with his lance; cook, you cook! --sail this way, cook!
conciliating the devil.  But, as yet, Stubb heeded not the mumblings of the
decision about the propriety of devil-worship, and the expediency of
dam racket!  Cook, here interposed Stubb, accompanying the word with a
sudden slap on the shoulder, -- Cook!  why, damn your eyes, you mustn't swear
tender.  Don't I always say that to be good, a whale-steak must be tough?
occasion when you will find them in such countless numbers, and in gayer or
buried; and though one or two other like instances might be set down,
parties; and though sharks also are the invariable outriders of all slave
quarrelsomely carving away under the table at the dead meat; and though, were
that way when you're preaching.  That's no way to convert sinners, Cook!
deck-table are
while Stubb, softly crawling behind, overheard all that was said.
deliver my message.  Here, take this lantern, snatching one from his
his congregation, with the other hand he solemnly flourished his tongs, and
best be likened to the hollow made by a carpenter in countersinking for a
and turning over on their backs as they scooped out huge globular pieces of
woraciousness, fellow-critters, I don't blame ye so much for; dat is natur,
a few inches of the sleepers' hearts.  Peering over the side you could just
     thousands on thousands of sharks, swarming round the dead leviathan,
all angel is not'ing more dan de shark well goberned.  Now, look here,
bred'ren, just try wonst to be cibil, a helping yourselbs from dat whale.

shark dood right as toder to dat whale?  And, by Gor, none on you has de right
to dat whale; dat whale belong to some one else.  I know some o' you has
as if that capstan were a sideboard.  Nor was Stubb the only banqueter on
bite off de blubber for de small fry ob sharks, dat can't get into de scrouge
midnight that steak was cut and cooked; and lighted by two lanterns of sperm
to help demselves.  Well done, old Fleece!  cried Stubb, that's
you is all sharks, and by natur wery woracious, yet I
zay to you, fellow-critters, dat dat woraciousness --'top dat dam slappin' ob

     Now, cook, said Stubb, resuming his supper at the capstan; Stand just where
.. <p 295 >
But, perhaps you expect to get into heaven by crawling through the lubber's
didn't you, and now look yourself, and see where your tongs are pointing.
done, or else it's no go.  But none of us are in heaven yet.  Drop your
hole, cook; but no, no, cook, you don't get there, except you go the
     Didn't say dat t'all, said Fleece, again in the sulks.  You said up there,
regular way, round by the rigging.  It's a ticklish business, but must be
that your heart, there? --that's your gizzard!  Aloft!  aloft! --that's it --now
the old black, with both hands placed as desired, vainly wriggling his

But don't you know the higher you climb, the colder it gets?  Main-top, eh?
I'm coming to, cook.  You must go home and be born over again; you don't
have put it out of sight as soon as possible; you see that, don't you?  Well,
for the future, when you cook another whale-steak for my private table here,
the capstan, I'll tell you what to do so as not to spoil it by overdoing.
tongs straight over his head, and keeping it there very solemnly.  So, then,
fetched Elijah?  And fetch him where?  Up dere, said Fleece, holding his
answer?  When dis old brack man dies, said the negro slowly, changing his
pickle.  As for the ends of the flukes, have them soused, cook.  There, now
tongs, cook, and hear my orders.  Do ye hear?  Hold your hat in one hand, and
     Go to bed berry soon, he mumbled, half-turning as he spoke.  Avast!  heave

me cutlets for supper to-morrow night in the mid-watch.  D'ye hear?  away you
sail, then. --Halloa!  stop!  make a bow before you go. --Avast heaving again!
expect to go to, cook?
me such a dreadful lie as you did just now, eh?  said Stubb.  Where do you
beloved fellow-creatures, have you, cook!  And yet you come here, and tell
moment, the old negro muttered, Best cooked 'teak I eber taste; joosy,
ejaculation he went to his hammock.
-- take it, and taste it.  Faintly smacking his withered lips over it for a
     Well then, cook; you see this whale-steak of yours was so very bad, that I
hold which the ship has upon the whale when moored alongside, is by the flukes
or tail; and as from its greater density that part is relatively heavier
than any other (excepting the side-fins), its flexibility even in death,
country?  he cried, sharply.  No, you didn't, cook; but I'll tell you what
mouthful at the last word, so that that morsel seemed a continuation of the
this difficulty is ingeniously overcome: a small, strong line is prepared
with a wooden float at its outer end, and a weight in its middle, while the
     Silence!  How old are you, cook? 'Bout ninety, dey say, he gloomily

     to rise on the other side of the mass, so that now having girdled the made
are you, cook?  What dat do wid de 'teak, said the old black, testily.
whale, the chain is readily made to follow suit; and being slipped along the
     All dention, said Fleece, again stooping over upon his tongs in the

.. <p 297 >
point of junction with its broad flukes or lobes.
ye may go.
you have it.  Hold it there now, and pay attention.  All 'dention, said

     The old monks of Dunfermline were very fond of them.  They had a great
.. <p 299 >
a young buck with an intelligent looking calf's head before him, is somehow
hundred feet long, it takes away your appetite.  Only the most unprejudiced
at him, with an Et tu Brute!  expression.  It is not, perhaps, entirely
indeed, requires uncommon discrimination.  And that is the reason why
eating of him with abhorrence; that appears to result, in some way, from the
dining upon calves' brains, by and by get to have a little brains of their
and every one knows that some young bucks among the epicures, by continually
one of the saddest sights you can see.  The head looks a sort of reproachfully
man that ever murdered an ox was regarded as a murderer; perhaps he was hung;
own, so as to be able to tell a calf's head from their own heads; which,
casket of the skull is broken into with an axe, and the two plump, whitish
In the case of a small Sperm Whale the brains are accounted a fine dish.  The
of dead quadrupeds.  Does not that sight take a tooth out of the cannibal's
jaw?  Cannibals?  who is not a cannibal?  I tell you it will be more tolerable
Nevertheless, many whalemen have a method of absorbing it into some other
month of its growth, yet far too rich to supply a substitute for butter. 
somewhat resembling calves' head, which is quite a dish among some epicures;
nailest geese to the ground and feastest on their bloated livers in thy
as the buffalo's (which is esteemed a rare dish), were it not such a solid
     They have such an eatable look that the most self-denying stranger can hardly
the day of judgment, than for thee, civilized and enlightened gourmand, who
there, my civilized and enlightened gourmand dining off that roast beef,
thing of the sea, and eat it too by its own light.  But no doubt the first

are a species of whale.  Porpoises, indeed, are to this day considered fine
indite his circulars?  It is only within the last month or two that that
mouldy scraps of whales which had been left ashore after trying out the
a whaling vessel --that these men actually lived for several months on the
infants, as being exceedingly juicy and nourishing.  And this reminds me
Zogranda, one of their most famous doctors, recommends strips of blubber for
.. <p 298 >
captured Sperm Whale, after long and weary toil, is brought alongside late at
night, it is not, as a general thing at least, customary to proceed at once
to the business of cutting him in.  For that business is an exceedingly

a'lee; and then send every one below to his hammock till daylight, with the
reservation that, until that time, anchor-watches shall be kept; that is,
society passed a resolution to patronize nothing but steel pens.
two and two for an hour, each couple, the crew in rotation shall mount the
much of him; but when you come to sit down before a meat-pie nearly one
of sharks gather round the moored carcase, that were he left so for six
what is that handle made of? --what but the bones of the brother of the very ox
you are eating?  And what do you pick your teeth with, after devouring that

Sabbath as followed!  Ex officio professors of Sabbath breaking are all
concluded; and when, accordingly, Queequeg and a forecastle seaman came on
     It was a Saturday night, and such a
deck, no small excitement was created among the sharks; for immediately
god made him shark, said the savage, agonizingly lifting his hand up and
tackles, among other ponderous things comprising a cluster of blocks generally
painted green, and which no single man can possibly lift --this vast bunch of

.. < chapter lxvii 23  CUTTING IN >
seemed to lurk in their very joints and bones, after what might be called the
rope winding through these intricacies, was then conducted to the windlass,
.. <p 301 >
honed, just like a razor.  In its socket, a stiff pole, from twenty to
and ghosts of these creatures.  A sort of generic or Pantheistic vitality
is always kept as sharp as possible; and when being used is occasionally
insertion of the hook just above the nearest of the two side-fins.  This done,
flat, and its upper end considerably narrower than the lower.  This weapon
The whaling-spade used for cutting-in is made of the very best steel; is about
one dense crowd at the windlass.  When instantly, the entire ship careens over
seemingly their only vital part.  But in the foamy confusion of their mixed
.. <p 301n. >
down; wedder Fejee god or Nantucket god; but de god wat made shark must be
the main body of the crew striking up a wild chorus, now commence heaving in
heave of the windlass is answered by a helping heave from the billows; till
every sailor a butcher.  You would have thought we were offering up ten
the sky.  More and more she leans over to the whale, while every gasping
sight dragging after it the disengaged semicircular end of the first strip of
     the strongest point anywhere above a ship's deck.  The end of the hawser-like
And now suspended in stages over the side, Starbuck and Stubb, the mates,
sometimes stripped by spiralizing it.  For the strain constantly kept up by
the windlass continually keeps the whale rolling over and over in the water,
and struggling hosts, the marksmen could not always hit their mark; and this
thousand red oxen to the sea gods.  In the first place, the enormous cutting
.. <p 301 >
     that they cast long gleams of light over the turbid sea, these
upwards and backwards from the whale, and the triumphant tackle rises into
whalemen.  The ivory Pequod was turned into what seemed a shamble;
considerable hole in the lower part of the swaying mass.  Into this hole, the
arguments against such a presumption; because you cannot raise any other
dense enveloping layer from the whale's body but that same blubber; and the
end of the second alternating great tackle is then hooked so as to retain a
is still fast, the long upper strip, called a blanket-piece, swings clear,
outermost enveloping layer of any animal, if reasonably dense, what can that
resembling the thinnest shreds of isinglass, only it is almost as flexible
preposterous it may at first seem to talk of any creature's skin as being of
eight or ten to twelve and fifteen inches in thickness.  Now, however
scrape off with your hand an infinitely thin, transparent substance, somewhat
such dried bits, which I use for marks in my whale-books.  It is
sometimes pleased myself with fancying it exerted a magnifying influence.  At
close-grained beef, but tougher, more elastic and compact, and ranges from
My original opinion remains unchanged; but it is only an opinion.  The
that sort of consistence and thickness, yet in point of fact these are no
thin, isinglass substance, which, I admit, invests the entire body of the
.. <p 304 >
     I have given no small attention to that
skin of a new-born child.  But no more of this.  Assuming the blubber to be the
skin of the whale; then, when this skin, as in the case of a very large

.. < chapter lxviii 29  THE BLANKET >
state, is only three fourths, and not the entire substance of the coat; some
idea may hence be had of the enormousness of that animated mass, a mere part
.. <p 303 >
all hands swearing occasionally, by way of assuaging the general friction.
integument yields such a lake of liquid as that.  Reckoning ten barrels to the
ton, you have ten tons for the net weight of only three quarters of the stuff
of the whale's skin.  In life, the visible surface of the Sperm Whale is not
blubber-room gentlemen coiling, the mates scarfing, the ship straining, and
over obliquely crossed and re-crossed with numberless straight marks in thick
away the long blanket-piece as if it were a great live mass of plaited
blubber-room.  Into this twilight apartment sundry nimble hands keep coiling
body itself.  Nor is this all.  In some instances, to the quick, observant
eye, those linear marks, as in a veritable engraving, but afford the ground
for far other delineations.  These are hieroglyphical; that is, if you call
mentioned, but seem to be seen through it, as if they were engraved upon the
the proper word to use in the present connexion.  By my retentive memory of
those mysterious cyphers on the walls of pyramids hieroglyphics, then that is
and is all ready for lowering.  The heavers forward now resume their song,
hieroglyphic palisades on the banks of the Upper Mississippi.  Like those
mystic rocks, too, the mystic-marked whale remains undecipherable.  This
whale, is not so much to be regarded as the skin of the creature, as the
transparent, as I said before; and being laid upon the printed page, I have
England rocks on the sea-coast, which Agassiz imagines to bear the marks of
also seems to me that such scratches in the whale are probably made by hostile
contact with other whales; for I have most remarked them in the large,
virtue of interior spaciousness.  Oh, man!  admire and model thyself after the
     strong individual vitality, and the rare virtue of thick walls, and the rare

experiment, that the blood of a Polar whale is warmer than that of a Borneo
hopeless to teach these fine things!  Of erections, how few are domed like St.
glued in amber.  But more surprising is it to know, as has been proved by
perpendicularly frozen into the hearts of fields of ice, as a fly is found
found at home, immersed to his lips for life in those Arctic waters!  where,
lungs and warm blood.  Freeze his blood, and he dies.  How wonderful is it
in winter would bask before an inn fire; whereas, like man, the whale has
creatures, that warm themselves under the lee of an iceberg, as a traveller
has not perceptibly lost anything in bulk.  it is still colossal.  slowly it
of the skin or blubber of the whale.  It has already been said, that it is
What would become of a Greenland whale, say, in those shuddering, icy seas of
indeed wrapt up in his blubber as in a real blanket or counterpane; or, still
.. <p 306 >
the beheaded whale flashes like a marble sepulchre; though changed in hue, it
vast white headless phantom floats further and further from the ship, and
whale!  Do thou, too, remain warm among ice.  Do thou, too, live in this world
without being of it.  Be cool at the equator; keep thy blood fluid at the
floating in the sun, and the white spray heaving high against it;
is, a vengeful ghost survives and hovers over it to scare.  Espied by some
neck; on the contrary, where his head and body seem to join, there, in that
obscuring the swarming fowls, nevertheless still shows the white mass
operate from above, some eight or ten feet intervening between him and his
reason.  Consider that the whale has nothing that can properly be called a
the story of your obstinate survival of old beliefs never bottomed on the
untoward circumstances he has to cut many feet deep in the flesh; and in that
Now, the beheading of the Sperm Whale is a scientific anatomical feat, upon
     It should not have been omitted that
adjacent, interdicted parts, and exactly divide the spine at a critical
point hard by its insertion into the skull.  Do you not marvel,

then, at Stubb's boast, that he demanded but ten minutes to behead a sperm
very place, is the thickest part of him.  Remember, also, that the surgeon must
.. <p 308 >
deeper men than Doctor Johnson who believe in them.
leviathan this is impossible; for the sperm whale's head embraces nearly one
third of his entire bulk, and completely to suspend such a burden as that,
earth, and now not even hovering in the air!  There's orthodoxy!  Thus, while
subject, and that subject almost hidden in a discolored, rolling, and
There's your law of precedents; there's your utility of traditions; there's
buoyed up by its native element.  And there with the strained craft steeply
leaning over to it, by reason of the enormous downward drag from the lower
mast-head, and every yard-arm on that side projecting like a crane over the
perhaps, ships shun the place; leaping over it as silly sheep leap over a
waves; there, that blood-dripping head hung to the Pequod's waist like the
.. <p 308 >
reigned over the before tumultuous but now deserted deck.  An intense copper
which experienced whale surgeons very much pride themselves; and not without
whale?  When first severed, the head is dropped astern and held there by a
and hooded head; and hanging there in the midst of so intense a calm, it
erecting himself, while whole thunder-clouds swept aside from his brow.
foundations.  Where unrecorded names and navies rust, and untold hopes and
lookest hoary with mosses; speak, mighty head, and tell us the secret thing
seen enough to split the planets and make an infidel of Abraham, and not one
borne a righteous husband to outstretched, longing arms.  O head!  thou hast
each other, when heaven seemed false to them.  Thou saw'st the murdered mate
stood leaning over with eyes attentively fixed on this head.  It was a black
man!  how far beyond all utterance are your linked analogies!  not the
flaming ship; heart to heart they sank beneath the exulting wave; true to
mind.
anchors rot; where in her murderous hold this frigate earth is ballasted with
main-masthead.  Aye?  Well, now, that's cheering, cried Ahab, suddenly
syllable is thine!  Sail ho!  cried a triumphant voice from the
.. <p 310 >
that head upon which the upper sun now gleams, has moved amid this world's
to rock.  By and by, through the glass the stranger's boats and manned
that way, and to my breezelessness bring his breeze!  O Nature, and O soul of
are enabled to recognise each other upon the ocean, even at considerable
captain, the stranger in question waved his hand from his boat's stern in
distances, and with no small facility.  The Pequod's signal was at last
in the Jeroboam's boat, was a man of a singular appearance, even in that wild
small, short, youngish man, sprinkled all over his face with freckles, and
conversation was sustained between the two parties; but at intervals not
again.  Subject to this, and other the like interruptions now and then, a
some way ahead; but would be soon skilfully brought to her proper bearings
he!  that's he!  the long-togged scaramouch the Town-Ho's company told us of!
ship, the Jeroboam's boat by the occasional use of its oars contrived to keep
.. <p 312 >
According to this account and what was subsequently learned, it seemed that
an incorruptible sea and air rolling and flowing between; yet conscientiously
everybody in the Jeroboam.  His story was this: He had been originally
nurtured among the crazy society of Neskyeuna Shakers, where he had been a
the scaramouch in question had gained a wonderful ascendency over almost
crew remained untainted, and though his ship was half a rifle-shot off, and
opening of the seventh vial, which he carried in his vest-pocket; but, which,
wearing redundant yellow hair.  A long-skirted, cabalistically-cut coat of a
whaling life where individual notabilities make up all totalities.  He was a
broke out in a freshet.  He announced himself as the archangel Gabriel, and
but straightway upon the ship's getting out of sight of land, his insanity
commanded the captain to jump overboard.  He published his manifesto, whereby
disciples among the crew, that at last in a body they went to the captain and
in case this intention was carried out.  So strongly did he work upon his
land him in the first convenient port, the archangel forthwith opened all his
seals and vials -- devoting the ship and all hands to unconditional perdition,
that Gabriel had the complete freedom of the ship.  The consequence of all
this was, that the archangel cared little or nothing for the captain and
have been rid of him; but apprised that that individual's intention was to
invest this Gabriel in the minds of the majority of the ignorant crew, with
mostly poor devils, cringed, and some of them fawned before him; in
nor should it be stayed but according to his good pleasure.  The sailors,
obedience to his instructions, sometimes rendering him personal homage, as to
imagination, and all the preternatural terrors of real delirium, united to
measureless self-deception of the fanatic himself, as his measureless power
of deceiving and bedevilling so many others.  But it is time to return to the
to be any way maltreated, say or do what he would; so that it came to pass
declared these things; --the dark, daring play of his sleepless, excited
to Captain Mayhew, who stood in the boat's stern; come on board.  But now
told him if Gabriel was sent from the ship, not a man of them would remain.
true.  Nor is the history of fanatics half so striking in respect to the

     Meantime, the hoisted sperm whale's head jogged about very violently, and
Greedily sucking in this intelligence, Gabriel solemnly warned the captain
Shaker God incarnated; the Shakers receiving the Bible.  But when, some year
against attacking the white whale, in case the monster should be seen; in his
by one of those occasional caprices of the seas were tumbling, not heaving it.
gibbering insanity, pronouncing the White Whale to be no less a being than the
or two afterwards, Moby Dick was fairly sighted from the mast-heads, Macey,
not long left home, when upon speaking a whale-ship, her people were
Mayhew began a dark story concerning Moby Dick; not, however, without
much weary pulling, and many perilous, unsuccessful onsets, he at last
succeeded in getting one iron fast.  Meantime, Gabriel, ascending to the
the chief mate, burned with ardor to encounter him; and the captain himself
reliably apprised of the existence of Moby Dick, and the havoc he had made.


     and making a long arc in his descent, fell into the sea at the distance of
     that of the fatal accidents in the Sperm-Whale Fishery, this kind is perhaps
about fifty yards.  Not a chip of the boat was harmed, nor a hair of any
accompanies the body.  But strangest of all is the circumstance, that in more
almost as frequent as any.  Sometimes, nothing is injured but the man who is
instances than one, when the body has been recovered, not a single mark of
the falling form of Macey, was plainly descried from the ship.  Raising a
thigh-board, in which the headsman stands, is torn from its place and
oarsman's head; but the mate for ever sank.  It is well to parenthesize here,
thus annihilated; oftener the boat's bow is knocked off, or the
violence is discernible; the man being stark dead.  The whole calamity, with
-- Think, think of the blasphemer --dead, and down there! --beware of the
blasphemer's end!  Ahab stolidly turned aside; then said to Mayhew,
his feet, glaring
.. <p 316 >
one of thy officers, if I mistake not.  Starbuck, look over the bag.  Every
whale-ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships, whose
Death himself might well have been the post-boy.  Can'st not read it?  cried
ahab.  give it me, man.  aye, aye it's but a dim scrawl; --what's this?  As
he was studying it out, Starbuck took a long cutting-spade pole, and with his
knife slightly split the end, to insert the letter there, and in that way,
