black-letter, thou reasonest well.  Yes, these eyes are windows, and this
body of mine is the house.  What a pity they didn't stop up the chinks and the
glazier.  True enough, thought I, as this passage occurred to my mind --old
one of those tall mountaineers from the Alleganian Ridge in Virginia.  When
it seems, for some reason a huge favorite with them, they raised a cry of
sea.  In a few minutes, however, he was missed by his shipmates, and being,
pursuit of him.  It was now about nine o'clock, and the room seeming almost
supernaturally quiet after these orgies, I began to congratulate myself upon
.. <p 15 >
give him much joy.  His voice at once announced
rather not sleep with your own brother.  I don't know how it is, but people
like to be private when they are sleeping.  And when it comes to sleeping with
that he was a Southerner, and from his fine stature, I thought he must be
brown and burnt, making his white teeth dazzling by the contrast; while in
coffer-dam.  I have seldom seen such brawn in a man.  His face was deeply
filled with dusty rarities gathered from this wide world's remotest nooks.
at once; and since the sea-gods had ordained that he should soon become my
the deep shadows of his eyes floated some reminiscences that did not seem to
own skin.  The more I pondered over this harpooneer, the more I abominated
the revelry of his companions had mounted to its height, this man slipped
he refrained from making as much noise as the rest.  This man interested me
the thought of sleeping with him.  It was fair to presume that being a
low ponderous beams above, and such old wrinkled planks beneath, that you
that one of them held somewhat aloof, and though he seemed desirous not to
tell from what vile hole he had been coming?  Landlord!  I've changed my mind
sea, and they began capering about most obstreperously.  I observed, however,
heads, as it generally does even with the arrantest topers newly landed from
on the weather side of an ice-island.  The liquor soon mounted into their
tidiest, certainly none of the finest.  I began to twitch all over.  Besides,
mind of how long standing, or whether caught off the coast of Labrador, or
he swore was a sovereign cure for all colds and catarrhs whatsoever, never
entered.  No wonder, then, that they made a straight wake for the whale's
They had just landed from their boat, and this was the first house they
grinning like an ape.  The shavings flew right and left; till at last the
plane-iron came bump against an indestructible knot.  The landlord was near
spraining his wrist, and I told him for heaven's sake to quit -- the bed was
soft enough to suit me, and I did not know how all the planing in the world
beards stiff with icicles, they seemed an eruption of bears from Labrador.
heads muffled in woollen comforters, all bedarned and ragged, and their
room, he went about his business, and left me in a brown study.  I now took
the measure of the bench, and found that it was a foot too short; but that
mariners enough.  Enveloped in their shaggy watch coats, and with their
heard in the entry; the door was flung open, and in rolled a wild set of
wait a bit, Skrimshander; I've
else to do with myself, I resolved to spend the rest of the evening as a
Supper over, the company went back to the bar-room, when, knowing not what
.. <p 14 >
gone a death-harvesting with such a hacking, horrifying implement.  Mixed with
the window, and both together formed a series of small whirlwinds in the
immediate vicinity of the spot where I had thought to spend the night.  The
before I did.
so turned out that we should sleep together, he must undress and get into bed
most violent knockings?  it seemed no bad idea; but upon second thoughts I
dark complexioned harpooneer.  At any rate, I made up my mind that if it
popped out of the room, the harpooneer might be standing in the entry, all
ready to knock me down!  Still, looking around me again, and seeing no possible
don't--he eats nothing but steaks, and likes 'em rare.  The devil he does,
a most direful manner.  My boy, said the landlord, you'll have the
One young fellow in a green box coat, addressed himself to these dumplings in
dropping in before long.  I'll have a good look at him then, and perhaps we
may become jolly good bedfellows after all --there's no telling.
Iceland --no fire at all  --the landlord said he couldn't afford it.  Nothing
five of us were summoned to our meal in an adjoining room.  It was cold as
in a great hurricane; the half-foundered ship weltering there with its three
full sail, but he didn't make much headway, I thought.  At last some four or
twelve o'clock.  The landlord chuckled again with his lean chuckle, and
seemed to be mightily tickled at something beyond my comprehension.  No, he
away at the space between his legs.  he was trying his hand at a ship under
over like a bench on the Battery.  At one end a ruminating tar was still
picture's midst.  That once found out, and all the rest were plain.  But stop;
Supper 'll be ready directly.  I sat down on an old wooden settle, carved all
blanket.  I thought so.  All right; take a seat.  Supper? --you want supper?
decidedly objectionable, why rather than wander further about a strange town
landlord) really had no other place for me, and the harpooneer was not
this blessed Saturday night, or rather Sunday morning, in peddling his head
.. <p 13 >
a whalin', so you'd better get used to that sort of thing.
bed unoccupied.  But avast, he added, tapping his forehead, you haint no
accommodated with a room, received for answer that his house was full --not a
was no yoking them.  I then placed the first bench lengthwise along the only
that yarn to me --I'm not green.  May be not, taking out a stick and
whittling a toothpick, but I rayther guess you'll be done brown if that ere
and so on to the full glass --the Cape Horn measure, which you may gulp down
Fill to this mark, and your charge is but a penny; to this a penny more;
limber, portentous, black mass of something hovering in the
mean?  Sartain, and that's the very reason he can't sell it, I guess.
meridians rudely pecked into the glass, surround these footpads' goblets.
glasses deceitfully tapered downwards to a cheating bottom.  Parallel
little withered old man, who, for their money, dearly sells the sailors
that too without delay.  I come to your house and want a bed; you tell me you
another cursed Jonah (by which name indeed they called him), bustles a
decanters, bottles, flasks; and in those jaws of swift destruction, like
persist in telling me the most mystifying and exasperating stories, tending
to beget in me an uncomfortable feeling towards the man whom
almost drive beneath it.  within are shabby shelves, ranged round with old
you design for my bedfellow --a sort of connexion, landlord, which is an
intimate and confidential one in the highest degree.  I now demand of you to
Projecting from the further angle of the room stands a dark-looking den --the
first you almost thought some ambitious young artist, in the time of the New
you what it is, landlord, said I, quite calmly, you'd better stop spinning
true I take to be good evidence that this harpooneer is stark mad, and I've
it was getting late, and my decent harpooneer ought to be home and going
Crossing this dusky entry, and on through yon low-arched way --cut through
breath, that's a purty long sarmon for a chap that rips a little now and
defaced, that in the unequal cross-lights by which you viewed it, it was
liable to a criminal prosecution.  Wall, said the landlord, fetching a long
has just arrived from the south seas, where he bought up a lot of 'balmed New
.. <p 12 >
The original iron entered
then.  But be easy, be easy, this here harpooneer I have been tellin' you of
to churches.  He wanted to, last Sunday, but I stopped him just as he was
and run away with by a whale, years afterward slain off the Cape of Blanco.
fifty years ago did Nathan Swain kill fifteen whales between a sunrise and a
mystery, and showed that the landlord, after all, had had no idea of fooling
me --but at the same time what could I think of a harpooneer who stayed out a
Some were storied weapons.  With this once long lance, now wildly elbowed,
at all, especially as another current from the rickety door met the one from
that harpooneer is a dangerous man.  He pays reg'lar, was the rejoinder.
as you gazed, and wondered what monstrous cannibal and savage could ever have
glittering teeth resembling ivory saws; others were tufted with knots of
dismantled masts alone visible; and an exasperated whale, purposing to spring
going to bed, yet no sign of my harpooneer.  Landlord!  said I, what sort of
does it not bear a faint resemblance to a gigantic fish?  even the great
peddling, you see, and I don't see what on airth keeps him so late, unless,
painting meant.  Ever and anon a bright, but, alas, deceptive idea would dart
involuntarily took an oath with yourself to find out what that marvellous
centre of the picture over three blue, dim, perpendicular lines floating in a
that, Sal said it wouldn't do.  Come along here, I'll give ye a glim in a
jiffy; and so saying he lighted a candle and held it towards me, offering to
.. <p 11 >
landlord's.  It's broke a'ready, said he.  Broke, said I -- broke, do you
come to anchor somewhere --come along then; do come; won't ye come?  I
altogether unwarranted.  But what most puzzled and confounded you was a long,
ushered into a small room, cold as a clam, and furnished, sure enough, with a
prodigious bed, almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers to sleep
come to the conclusion that such an idea, however wild, might not be
England hags, had endeavored to delineate chaos bewitched.  But by dint of
would not do to be sellin' human heads about the streets when folks is goin'
the bed, but he had disappeared.  Folding back the counterpane, I stooped
else; for sailors no more sleep two in a bed at sea, than bachelor Kings do
tolerably well.  I then glanced round the room; and besides the bedstead and
down lengthwise along the line of the equator; yea, ye
side hung a very large oil-painting so thoroughly besmoked, and every way
striking a whale.  Of things not properly belonging to the room, there was a
     Entering that gable-ended Spouter-Inn,

not Lazarus rather be in Sumatra than here?  Would he not far rather lay him
shelf over the fire-place, and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the
.. < chapter iii 14  THE SPOUTER-INN >
.. <p 10 >
some satisfactory conclusion concerning it.  I can compare it to nothing but a
oriental summer climes of everlasting conservatories; give me the privilege
going a-whaling, and there is plenty of that yet to come.  Let us scrape the
drinks the tepid tears of orphans.  But no more of this blubbering now, we are
ponchos.  But could it be possible that any sober harpooneer would get into
Dives, this is more wonderful than that an iceberg should be moored to one of
gods!  go down to the fiery pit itself, in order to keep out this frost?  Now,
uncommonly shaggy and thick, and I thought a little damp, as though this
.. <p 10 >
a bit of glass stuck against the wall, and I never saw such a sight in my
life.  I tore myself out of it in such a hurry that I gave myself a kink in
off his tatters with his shiverings, he might plug up both ears with rags,
the neck.  I sat down on the side of the bed, and commenced thinking about
this head-peddling harpooneer, and his door mat.  After thinking some time on
land trunk.  Likewise, there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the
large door mat, ornamented at the edges with little tinkling tags something
more in my shirt sleeves.  But beginning to feel very cold now, half undressed
night; how Orion glitters; what northern lights!  Let them talk of their
and put a corn-cob into his mouth, and yet that would not keep out the
tumbled into bed, and commended myself to the care of heaven.  Whether that
you will be so good as to unsay that story about selling his head, which if
is on, and the chips were carted off a million years ago.  Poor Lazarus
last I slid off into a light doze, and had pretty nearly made a good offing
towards the land of Nod, when I heard a heavy footfall in the passage, and
your own hammock, and cover yourself with your own blanket, and sleep in your
yourself comfortable now, and good night to ye.  I turned round from eyeing
-- The ribs and terrors in the whale, Arched over me a dismal gloom, While
and offered a prayer so deeply devout that he seemed kneeling and praying at
but too well knew the darkness of his deserts, --when wretched Jonah cries out
are pitiful.  For when Jonah, not yet supplicating God for mercy, since he
confession; whereupon the mariners became more and more appalled, but still
passage
other they not unreluctantly lay hold of Jonah.  And now behold Jonah taken up
a Hebrew," he cries --and then --"I fear the Lord the God of Heaven who hath
out from the east, and the sea is still, as Jonah carries down the gale with
him, leaving smooth water behind.  He goes down in the whirling heart of such
answer is forced from Jonah by the hard hand of God that is upon him.  "I am
into the yawning jaws
likewise another answer to a question not put by them, but the unsolicited
high Heaven, they fall to casting lots, to see for whose cause this great
of the fish's belly.  But observe his prayer, and so many white bolts, upon
his prison.  Then Jonah prayed unto learn a weighty lesson.  For sinful as he
him, and at last, fully to test the truth, by referring the whole matter to
her affrighted face from the steep gullies in the blackness overhead, aghast
.. <p 45 >
and finding no speedy vent runs roaring fore and aft, till the mariners come
look towards His holy temple.  And here, shipmates, is true and faithful
repentance; not clamorous for pardon, but grateful for punishment.  And how
pleasing to God was this conduct in Jonah, is shown in the eventual
billow leaping over the bulwarks.  Wave after wave thus leaps into the ship,
meanest thou, O sleeper!  arise!"  Startled from his lethargy by that direful
model for repentance.  Sin not; but if you do, take heed to repent of it like
such tones he commenced reading the following hymn; but changing his manner
slanting storm without seemed to add new power to the preacher, who, when
the far rush of the mighty whale, which even now with open mouth is cleaving
and every plank thunders with trampling feet right over Jonah's head; in all
clattering overboard; when the wind is shrieking, and the men are yelling,
brow, and the light leaping from his eye, made all his simple hearers look
on him with a quick fear that was strange to them.  There now came a lull in
his look, as he silently turned over the leaves of the Book once more; and,
boatswain calls all hands to lighten her; when boxes, bales, and jars are
     That ship, my friends, was the first of recorded smugglers!  the contraband

hundred gold coins for the apprehension of a parricide, and containing a
the frightened master comes to him, and shrieks in his dead ear, "What
Jonah's prodigy of ponderous misery drags him drowning down to sleep.  And
over him, as over the man who bleeds to death, for conscience is the wound,
to them to take him and cast him forth into the sea, for he knew that for
sit, and listen as you listen, while some one of you reads me that other
be passed; and at last amid the whirl of woe he feels, a deep stupor steals
chambers of my soul are all in crookedness!"  Like one who after a night of
the living God.  How being an anointed pilot-prophet, or speaker of true
things, and bidden by the Lord to sound those unwelcome truths in the ears of
my conscience hangs in me!" he groans, "straight upward, so it burns; but the
more appals him.  The floor, the ceiling, and the side, are all awry.  "Oh!  so
.. <p 44 >
berth his tormented eyes roll round the place, and this thus far successful
doom, and with swift slantings tore him along"into the midst of the seas,"
where the eddying depths sucked him ten thousand fathoms down, and"the weeds
were wrapped about his head," and all the watery world of woe bowled over
among which it hung.  The lamp alarms and frightens Jonah; as lying in his
     infallibly straight itself, it but made obvious the false, lying levels
heard the engulphed, repenting prophet when he cried.  Then God spake unto the
fish; and from the shuddering cold and blackness of the sea, the whale came

Lord came a second time; and Jonah, bruised and beaten --his ears, like two
hat-box, valise, or carpet-bag, --no friends accompany him to the wharf with
maintains a permanent obliquity with reference to the room; though, in truth,
     the whale shall hold him in the smallest of his bowel's wards.  Screwed at

and woe to that pilot of the living God who slights it.  Woe to him whom this
sea-shells, still multitudinously murmuring of the ocean --Jonah did the
waters when God has brewed them into a gale!  Woe to him who seeks to please
convicts' cells being never allowed to be locked within.  All dressed and
Captain laughs lowly to himself, and mutters something about the doors of
but the lock contains no key.  Hearing him foolishly fumbling there, the
burglar hastening to cross the seas.  So disordered, self-condemning is his
great Pilot Paul has it, while preaching to others is himself a castaway!
Jonah now.  "I'm travel-weary; I need sleep." "Thou look'st like it," says
them again, showed a deep joy in his eyes, as he cried out with a heavenly
guilty eye, skulking from his God; prowling among the shipping like a vile
     and Jonah is put down for his passage.  "Point out my state-room, Sir," says
.. <p 48 >
enthusiasm, -- but oh!  shipmates!  on the starboard hand of every woe, there is
deep.  Is not the main-truck higher than the kelson is low?  Delight is to
him --a far, far upward, and inward delight --who against the proud gods and

man!  Oh!  most contemptible and worthy of all scorn; with slouched hat and
treacherous world has gone down beneath him.  Delight is to him, who gives
no quarter in the truth, and kills, burns, and destroys all sin though he
     He rings every coin to find a counterfeit.  Not a forger, any way, he mutters;

Lord his God, and is only a patriot to heaven.  Delight is to him, whom all
Mediterranean, the Syrian; and Tarshish or Cadiz more than two thousand miles
from this sure Keel of the Ages.  And eternal delight and deliciousness will
be his, who coming to lay him down, can say with his final breath --O Father!
assented to.  Then the Captain knows that Jonah is a fugitive; but at the
striven to be Thine, more than to be this world's, or mine own.  Yet this is
nothing; I leave eternity to Thee; for what is man that he should live out
the lifetime of his God?  He said no more, but slowly waving a benediction,
     and without a passport; whereas Virtue, if a pauper, is stopped at all

.. < chapter X 24  A BOSOM FRIEND >
.. <p 48 >
penniless.  In this world, shipmates, sin that pays its way can travel freely,
discernment detects crime in any, but whose cupidity exposes it only in the
gale howls louder; then, with one hand raised invokingly to God, with the
the benediction some time.  He was sitting on a bench before the fire, with
his feet on the stove hearth, and in one hand was holding close up to his
away the Captain from that scent.  "I'll sail with ye," --he says, --"the
jack-knife gently whittling away at its nose, meanwhile humming to himself in
his heathenish way.  But being now interrupted, he put up the image; and
pretty
but no sooner does he hear that hollow voice, than he darts a scrutinizing
soon, going to the table, took up a large book there, and placing it on his
lap began counting the pages with deliberate regularity; at every fiftieth
     For the instant he almost turns to flee again.  But he rallies.  "I seek a

then begin again at the next fifty; seeming to commence at number one each
time, as though he could not count more than fifty, and it was only by such
advertised, they let him pass, and he descends into the cabin.  "Who's
confess himself suspected; but that itself is strong suspicion.  So he makes
though he was, and hideously marred about the face --at least to my taste --
into countries where God does not reign, but only the Captains of this earth.
boldness to his face, only looks so much the more a coward.  He will not
saw the traces of a simple honest heart; and in his large, deep eyes, fiery
description of his person.  He reads, and looks from Jonah to the bill;
humility, he spake these words: Shipmates, God has laid but one hand upon
against the spile upon the wharf to which the ship is moored, offering five
I guess he's the adulterer that broke jail in old Gomorrah, or belike, one of
too, that his head being shaved, his forehead was drawn out in freer and
brighter relief, and looked more expansive than it otherwise would, this I
will not venture to decide; but certain it was his head was phrenologically
their gamesome but still serious way, one whispers to the other --"Jack, he's
Strong intuitions of the man assure the mariners he can be no innocent.  In
Captain in the cabin, all the sailors for the moment desist from hoisting in
very projecting, like two long promontories thickly wooded on top.  Queequeg
was George Washington cannibalistically developed.  Whilst I was thus closely
and a lesson to me as a pilot of the living God.  As sinful men, it is a
.. <p 42 >
much as a single glance; but appeared wholly occupied with counting the
pages of the marvellous book.  Considering how sociably we had been sleeping
together the night previous, and especially considering the affectionate arm
be true, even though to be false were salvation!  Yea, woe to him who, as the
about us!  But what is this lesson that the book of Jonah teaches?
is to him whose strong arms yet support him, when the ship of this base
very strange.  But savages are strange beings; at times you do not know
a noble thing is that canticle in the fish's belly!  How billow-like and
woe is
the waves of the billows of the seas of the boisterous mob can never shake
Spain; as far by water, from Joppa, as Jonah could possibly have sailed in
to enlarge the circle of his acquaintances.  All this struck me as mighty
singular; yet, upon second thoughts, there was something almost sublime in
Tarshish.  There lurks, perhaps, a hitherto unheeded meaning here.  By all
     He skulks about the wharves of Joppa, and seeks a ship that's bound for
prophet!  What
entirely at his ease; preserving the utmost serenity; content with his own

philosophy; though no doubt he had never heard there was such a thing as
that.  But, perhaps, to be true philosophers, we mortals should not be
his countenance yet had a something in it which was by no means disagreeable.
disobeying ourselves, wherein the hardness of obeying God consists.  With
old woman, he must have broken his digester.  As I sat there in that now
lonely room; the fire burning low, in that mild stage when, after its first
a hard command.  But all the things that God would have us do are hard for us
finally the deliverance and joy of Jonah.  As with all sinners among men,
upon us silent, solitary twain; the storm booming without in solemn swells;
howling of the storm.  A brief pause ensued; the preacher slowly turned over
Shipmates, it is a two-stranded lesson; a lesson to us all as sinful men,
indifference speaking a nature in which there lurked no civilized hypocrisies
world charms from Gospel duty!  Woe to him who seeks to pour oil upon the
complaints -- No more the whale did me confine.  With speed he flew to my
that Queequeg never consorted at all, or but very little, with the other
world.  This soothing savage had redeemed it.  There he sat, his very
.. <p 41 >
as strange to him as though he were in the planet Jupiter; and yet he seemed
and hints, doing my best to talk with him meanwhile.  At first he little
noticed these advances; but presently, upon my referring to his last
does Jonah's deep sealine sound!  what a pregnant lesson to us is this
Jonah -- And God had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah.  Shipmates,
little complimented.  We then turned over the book together, and I endeavored
to explain to him the purpose of the printing, and the meaning of the few
would I come down from this mast-head and sit on the hatches there where you
Joppa, the modern Jaffa, shipmates, is on the most easterly coast of the
I called my God, When I could scarce believe him mine, He bowed his ear to my
and tomahawk, he quietly offered me a puff.  And then we sat exchanging puffs
from that wild pipe of his, and keeping it regularly passing between us.  If
in this famous town.  Soon I proposed a social smoke; and, producing his pouch
there yet lurked any ice of indifference towards me in the Pagan's breast,
this pleasant, genial smoke we had, soon thawed it out, and left us cronies.
all God's sun-lit waves rolled by, And lift me deepening down to doom.  I saw
round the waist, and said that henceforth we were married; meaning, in his
when our smoke was over, he pressed his forehead against mine, clasped me
would have repelled most others, they were the very magnets that thus drew
you; both his hands press upon me.  I have read ye by what murky light may
     her original grotesqueness, and inlaid it, all over, with a quaintness both
.. <p 69 >
apparelled like any barbaric Ethiopian emperor, his neck heavy with pendants
hard-hearted to say the least.  He never used to swear, though, at his men,
home, were mostly all carried ashore to the hospital, sore exhausted and worn
out.  For a pious man, especially for a Quaker, he was certainly rather
story, that when he sailed the old Categut whaleman, his crew, upon arriving
task-master.  They told me in Nantucket, though it certainly seems a curious
being an incorrigible old hunks, and in his sea-going days, a bitter, hard
little cabin-boy in short clothes of the drabbest drab, to a harpooneer in a
idleness perished from before him.  His own person was the exact embodiment of
practical world quite another.  This world pays dividends.  Rising from a
reconciled these things in the reminiscence, I do not know; but it did not
gore.  How now in the contemplative evening of his days, the pious Bildad
saw seated on the transom when I followed Captain Peleg down into the cabin.
consistency about worthy Captain Bildad.  Though refusing, from conscientious
his vest.  Still, for all this immutableness, was there some lack of common
tails.  His broad-brim was placed beside him; his legs were stiffly crossed;
had not only been originally educated according to the strictest sect of
are called serious things, and indeed deemed those selfsame serious things
do with such an one, but with quite another; and still a man, who, if indeed
on Captain Ahab, young man, and thou wilt find that he has only one leg.
ambition, all mortal greatness is but disease.  But, as yet we have not to
if either by birth or other circumstances, he have what seems a half wilful
seeing me, glanced again inquiringly towards Peleg.  He says he's our man,
     accidental advantages, to learn a bold and nervous lofty language --that man

so intense a Quaker.  What do ye think of him, Bildad?  said Peleg.  He'll
do, said Bildad, eyeing me, and then went on spelling away at his book in a
here at the north, been led to think untraditionally and independently;
especially as Peleg, his friend and old shipmate, seemed such a blusterer.
peculiarities, a thousand bold dashes of character, not unworthy a
adventure of their subsequent lives, strangely blend with these unoutgrown
Quakers; they are Quakers with a vengeance.  So that there are instances among
they said; but somehow he got an inordinate quantity of cruel, unmitigated
settle with myself at what terms I would be willing to engage for the voyage.
peculiarities of the Quaker, only variously and anomalously modified by
.. <p 73 >
Now, Bildad, like Peleg, and indeed many other Nantucketers,
annuitants; widows, fatherless children, and chancery wards; each owning
pertaining to the respective duties of the ship's company.
as is sometimes the case in these ports, being held by a crowd of old
cabin.  seated on the transom was what seemed to me a most uncommon and
things altogether alien and heterogeneous.  For some of these same Quakers are
splice a rope, and all that, I made no doubt that from all I had heard I
-- come along with ye.  And so saying, he led the way below deck into the
now repeated to Peleg.  Seeing me so determined, he expressed his willingness
though the 275th lay was what they call a rather long lay, yet it was
and the Pequod was as good a ship as any --I thought the best -- and all this I
go round Cape Horn to see any more of it, eh?  Can't ye see the world where
think.  Well, what dost thou think then of seeing the world?  Do ye wish to
that this was a poor way to accumulate a princely fortune --and so it was, a
till you could clutch something --a hammer or a marling-spike, and go to work
slightest variety that I could see.  Well, what's the report?  said Peleg
very large; but considering that I was used to the sea, could steer a ship,
humorously or in earnest.  But concentrating all his crow's feet into one
puzzled by this curious request, not knowing exactly how to take it, whether
go in order to see the world?  Was not that what ye said?  I thought so.  Well
.. <p 72 >

Bildad; how that they being the principal proprietors of the Pequod,
Captain of the Pequod, what dost thou want of him?  he demanded.  I was
go a-whaling, to find out by experience what whaling is, but ye also want to
the whole management of the ship's affairs to these two.  And I did not know
and then jump after it?  Answer, quick!  I am, sir, if it should be
good.  Now, art thou the man to pitch a harpoon down a live whale's throat,
in the cabin, and reading his Bible as if at his own fireside.  Now while
that!  Mind what I said about the marchant service --don't aggravate me --I
no small surprise, considering that he was such an interested party in these
much from the simple fact of the accident.  Look ye now, young man, thy
ferocity in that particular whale, though indeed I might have inferred as
his concluding exclamation, but said as calmly as I could, What you say is
     Young man, come nearer to me: it was devoured, chewed up, crunched by the

.. <p 77 >
     What do you mean, sir?  Was the other one lost by a whale?  Lost by a whale!

interlacing round his eyes, which must have arisen from his continual
corrupt, but lay--" Lay, indeed, thought I, and such a lay!  the seven
now, for the last thirty years, to my certain knowledge.  How far ye got,
for one, shall not lay up many lays here below, where moth and rust do
crew.  We are part owners and agents.  But as I was going to say, if thou
magnitude of the figure it might at first deceive a landsman, yet the
seventy-seventh wouldn't be too much, would it? -- "where moth and rust do

slightest consideration will show that though seven hundred and seventy-seven
farthing is a good deal less than seven hundred and seventy-seven gold
.. <p 71 >
Captain Ahab?
particular, perhaps, about the
therefore the other and more inconsiderable and scattered owners, left nearly
treasure is, there will your heart be also.  I am going to put him down for
rather distrustful of all aliens, unless they hailed from Cape Cod or the
insulated Quakerish Nantucketer, was full of his insular prejudices, and
towards him said, Captain Peleg, thou hast a generous heart; but thou must
     thy last Captain, didst thou? --Dost not think of murdering the officers when

The seven hundred and seventy-seventh lay, Captain Peleg.  Thou Bildad!
concealed in this queer tenement, I at length found one who by his aspect
roared Peleg, starting up and clattering about the cabin.  Blast ye, Captain
suspicious, don't it, eh? --Hast not been a pirate, hast thou? --Didst not rob
of the marchant service to me again.  Marchant service indeed!  I suppose now
see that leg? --I'll take that leg away from thy stern, if ever thou talkest
steadily, thy conscience may be drawing ten inches of water, or ten fathoms,
all about whaling, I dare say --eh?  Nothing, Sir; but I have no doubt I
--ever been in a stove boat?  No, Sir, I never have.  Dost know nothing at
.. <p 78 >
land wood, but deftly travelled over sheaves of sea-ivory.  Scorning a
broad ends on the deck, a circle of these slabs laced together, mutually
Pequod?  said I, advancing to the door of the tent.  Supposing it be the
bound to hell.  Flukes and flames!  Bildad, say that again to me, and start
high;  consisting of the long, huge slabs of limber black bone taken from
insult me.  It's an all-fired outrage to tell any human creature that he's
eye-wrinkles are very effectual in a scowl.  Is this the Captain of the
causes the muscles about the eyes to become pursed together.  Such
first I saw nobody; but I could not well overlook a strange sort of tent, or
sink thee foundering down to the fiery pit, Captain Peleg.
appearance of the elderly man I saw; he was brown and brawny, like most old
.. <p 70 >
more than that.  Seven hundred and seventy-seventh, again said Bildad,
time eluded him.  Alarmed at this terrible outburst between the two principal
my astonishment, he sat down again on the transom very quietly, and seemed
to have not the slightest intention of withdrawing.  He seemed quite used to
seemed to have authority; and who, it being noon, and the ship's work
hereditary foe.  The helmsman who steered by that tiller in a tempest, felt
Pottowotamie Sachem's head.  A triangular opening faced towards the bows of
sloped towards each other, and at the apex united in a tufted point, where
used to be good at sharpening a lance, mend that pen, will ye.  My jack-knife
was all eagerness to vanish from before the awakened wrath of Peleg.  But to
very poor way indeed.  But I am one of those that never take on about princely
while I am putting up at this grim sign of the Thunder Cloud.  Upon the whole,
old hempen thews and tendons to.  Those thews ran not through base blocks of
authority, in order to propose myself as a candidate for the voyage, at
like the Tartar, when he holds back his fiery steed by clutching its jaw.  A
said peleg.  fetch him along, and we'll look at him.  What lay does he
want?  groaned Bildad, glancing up from the book in which he had again been
whistled at last -- the squall's gone off to leeward, I think.  Bildad, thou
will then see, I say, that the seven hundred and seventy-seventh part of a
my soul-bolts, but I'll--I'll--yes, I'll swallow a live goat with all his
long sharp teeth of the sperm whale, inserted there for pins, to fasten her
without lifting his eyes; and then went on mumbling -- for where your
young man, we may be taking the bread from those widows and those orphans.
Charity --Aunt Charity, as everybody called her.  And like a sister of
charity did this charitable Aunt Charity bustle about hither and thither,
crew sprang for the handspikes.  Now, in getting under weigh, the station
     Man the capstan!  Blood and thunder! --jump! --was the next command, and the
generally occupied by the pilot is the forward part of the ship.  And here
made a pilot in order to save the Nantucket pilot-fee to all the ships he was

except in port; and on board the Pequod, for thirty years, the order to
at his frantic impudence.  At last, stepping on board the Pequod, we found
next day the ship would certainly sail.  So next morning, Queequeg and I took
in Booble Alley, with hearty good will.  Nevertheless, not three days
one of the licensed pilots of the port --he being suspected to have got himself
     Aft here, ye sons of bachelors, he cried, as the sailors lingered at the
previous, Bildad had told them that no profane songs would be allowed on
frost this morning, ain't it?  Good bye to ye.  Shan't see ye again very

ready to turn her hand and heart to anything that promised to yield safety,
ripped and swore astern in the most frightful manner.  I almost thought he
alive.  He seemed to do most of the talking and commanding, and not Bildad.
not much chance to think over the matter, for Captain Peleg was now all
comforting myself, however, with the thought that in pious Bildad might be
sister, had placed a small choice copy of Watts in each seaman's berth.
themselves on deck for a considerable time after heaving up the anchor, but
business, but the pilot's; and as he was not yet completely recovered --so
.. <p 101 >
the marchant service?  he roared.  Spring, thou sheep-head; spring, and
break thy backbone!  why don't ye spring, i say, all of ye--spring!  Quohog!
joint-commanders at sea, as well as to all appearances in port.  And, as for
thou green pants.  Spring, I say, all of ye, and spring your eyes out!  And
so saying, he moved along the windlass, here and there using his leg very
going it with a high hand on the quarter-deck, just as if they were to be
away with thee, friend Starbuck, and do our bidding.  How now!  Here upon the
was up, the sails were set, and off we glided.  It was a short, cold
Captain Ahab is all ready --just spoke to him --nothing more to be got from
captains, Peleg and Bildad, issued from the cabin, and turning to the chief
in ice, as in polished armor.  The long rows of teeth on the bulwarks
glistened in the moonlight; and like the white ivory tusks of some huge
brother-in-law, and a spare bible for the steward -- after all this, the two
headed the first watch, and ever and anon, as the old craft deep dived into
the green seas, and sent the shivering frost all over her, and the winds
howled, and the cordage rang, his steady notes were heard, -- Sweet fields
     At length, towards noon, upon the

more sweetly to me than then.  They were full of hope and fruition.  Spite of
this frigid
.. < chapter xxii 12  MERRY CHRISTMAS >
when I felt a sudden sharp poke in my rear, and turning round, was horrified
jacket, there was yet, it then seemed to me, many a pleasant haven in
Captain Ahab remained invisibly enshrined within his cabin.
the spring, untrodden, unwilted, remains at midsummer.  At last we gained such
matter-of-fact question, I answered, saying,
shore people were busy in bringing various last things on board.  Meanwhile
unpleasing, how Peleg and Bildad were affected at this juncture, especially
bestirred themselves; the mates were actively engaged; and several of the
I was going to ask him some further questions concerning Ahab, when we heard a
like men going towards that ship a while ago?  Struck by this plain
which an old shipmate sailed as captain; a man almost as old as he, once
more starting to encounter all the terrors of the pitiless jaw; loath to say
.. <p 100 >

cabin to speak another farewell word there; again came on deck, and looked
to windward; looked towards the wide and endless waters, only bounded by the
far-off unseen Eastern Continents; looked towards the land, looked aloft;
then revolved over once or twice; then sat up and rubbed his eyes.  Holloa!
mechanically coiling a rope upon its pin, convulsively grasped stout Peleg by
He breathed with a sort of muffledness; then seemed troubled in the nose;
easy!  He was going on with some wild reminiscences about his tomahawk-pipe,
winter night in the boisterous Atlantic, spite of my wet feet and wetter
for all his philosophy, there was a tear twinkling in his eye, when the
convertible into walking-sticks; upon occasion, a chief calling his attendant,
convenient on an excursion; much better than those garden-chairs which are
last, he turned to his comrade, with a final sort of look about him, -- Captain
custom of fattening some of the lower orders for ottomans; and to furnish a
of all sorts, the king, chiefs, and great people generally, were in the
to just beyond the head of the sleeper, and lighted his tomahawk pipe.  I sat
he'll twitch you off soon.  I wonder he don't wake.  Queequeg removed himself
.. <p 99 >
enough; and then, without more ado, sat quietly down there.  Gracious!
have a hot supper smoking for ye in old Nantucket.  Hurrah and away!  God
He put his hand upon the sleeper's rear, as though feeling if it was soft
incoherently.  I hope ye'll have fine weather now, so that Captain Ahab may
soon be moving among ye --a pleasant sun is all he needs, and ye'll have
plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go.  Be careful in the hunt, ye mates.
not for Elijah's otherwise inexplicable question.  But I beat the thing down;
raised full three per cent.  within the year.  Don't forget your prayers,
have thought myself to have been optically deceived in that matter, were it
sail-needles are in the green locker!  Don't whale it too much a' Lord's days,
men; but don't miss a fair chance either, that's rejecting Heaven's good
Seeing a light, we went down, and found only an old rigger there, wrapped in a
Going forward to the forecastle, we found the slide of the scuttle open.
everything in profound quiet, not a soul moving.  The cabin entrance was
and at intervals singing what seemed a dismal stave of psalmody, to cheer the
was, and mind ye, if-- Come, come, Captain Bildad; stop palavering, --away!
and with that, Peleg hurried him over the side, and both dropt into the
hands at the windlass, who roared forth some sort of a chorus about the girls
screaming gull flew overhead; the two hulls wildly rolled; we gave three
heavy-hearted cheers, and blindly plunged like fate into the lone Atlantic.
already involved in the matter, he insensibly strives to cover up his
--but never mind, never mind --it's all one, all in the family too; --sharp
     See if you can find 'em now, will ye?  Find who?  Morning to ye!  morning

spoken of, a tall, new-landed mariner, encountered in New Bedford at the inn.

     Yes, I thought I did see four or five men; but it was too dim to be sure.
.. <p 105 >
absolute dictator of it, so soon as the ship sailed out upon the open sea.
into the cold malicious waves, who should I see
fearfulness upon the man, who in mid-winter just landed from a four years'

standing at her helm but Bulkington!  I looked with sympathetic awe and
tempestuous term.  The land seemed scorching to his feet.  Wonderfullest
.. <p 98 >
and better, and was expected aboard every day; meantime, the two Captains,
the leeward land.  The port would fain give succor; the port is pitiful; in
the port is safety, comfort, hearthstone, supper, warm blankets, friends,
in which some thousands of his hard earned dollars were invested; a ship, in
afore breakfast?  He's cracked, Queequeg, said I, come on.  Holloa!
land, though it but graze the keel, would make her shudder through and
things are ever the unmentionable; deep memories yield no epitaphs; this
Oceans, and would prefer not to be detained.  Ye be, be ye?  Coming back
Queequeg, with the most unaccountable glances.  Elijah, said I, you will
peril; her only friend her bitterest foe!  Know ye, now, Bulkington?
aware of that, said elijah, slowly and wonderingly looking from me to
Elijah, that I consider you a little impertinent?  No, no, no; I wasn't
independence of her sea; while the wildest winds of heaven and earth
conspire to cast her on the treacherous, slavish shore?  But as in landlessness
little, in the uncertain twilight, strangely peering from Queequeg to me.  It
it to perish in that howling infinite, than be ingloriously dashed upon the
     It was nearly six o'clock, but only grey

heart, take heart, O Bulkington!  Bear thee grimly, demigod!  Up from the spray
of thy ocean-perishing --straight up, leaps thy apotheosis!
a very early start.
Starbuck; it'll spoil.  Be careful with the butter --twenty cents the pound it
Meantime, overseeing the other part of the ship, Captain Peleg
But when a man suspects any wrong, it sometimes happens that if he be
in this business of whaling; and as this business of whaling has somehow come
every fresh arrival, down went his mark opposite that article upon the paper.
so long a voyage, without once laying my eyes on the man who was to be the
pursuit; therefore, I am all anxiety to convince ye, ye landsmen, of the
an offing, that the two pilots were needed no longer.  The stout sail-boat
his ship.  To these questions they would answer, that he was getting better
the business of whaling is not accounted on a level with what are called the
liberal professions.  If a stranger were introduced into any miscellaneous
about Captain Ahab, and how he was, and when he was going to come on board
and then concluded by roaring back into his wigwam.  During these days of
emulation of the naval officers he should append the initials S. W.  F. (Sperm
at the men down the hatchways, roaring up to the riggers at the mast-head,
pre-eminently presuming and ridiculous.  Doubtless one leading reason why the
through.  With all her might she crowds all sail off shore; in so doing,
vocation amounts to a butchering sort of business; and that when actively
     Every once and a while Peleg came hobbling out of his whalebone den, roaring

And as for the matter of the alleged uncleanliness of our business, ye shall
have been all Martial Commanders whom the world invariably delights to honor.
soon be initiated into certain facts hitherto pretty generally unknown, and
which, upon the whole, will triumphantly plant the sperm whale-ship at least
.. <p 96 >
Bildad, he carried about with him a long list of the articles needed, and at
comparable to the unspeakable carrion of those battle-fields from which so
many soldiers return to drink in all ladies' plaudits?  And if the
day, with a long oil-ladle in one hand, and a still longer whaling lance in
a ship in which her beloved brother Bildad was concerned, and in which she
profession; let me assure ye that many a veteran who has freely marched up to
tail, fanning into eddies the air over his head.  For what are the
world declines honoring us whalemen, is this: they think that, at best, our
would sink the ship before the anchor could be got up; involuntarily I paused
yes, I can.  As for Peleg himself, he took it more like a philosopher; but

.. < chapter xxix 2  ENTER AHAB; TO HIM, STUBB >
.. <p 123 >
once; why, the end of it --the foot part --what a small sort of end it is;
cane.  Yes," thinks I,"it was only a playful cudgelling --in fact, only a
say, I was thinking to myself, "what's his leg now, but a cane --a whalebone
steward, tell me that of a morning he always finds the old man's hammock
cursed pyramid -- so confoundedly contradictory was it all, all the while, I
hand, Flask, fifty times more savage to bear than a blow from a cane.  The
the twenty-four; and he don't sleep then.  Didn't that Dough-Boy, the
the fright.  "What am I about?" says I at last.  "And what business is that of
whaleboning that he gave me --not a base kick.  Besides," thinks I,"look at it
between a living thump and a dead thump.  That's what makes a blow from the
that I was in, I somehow seemed to be thinking to myself, that after all, it
his stern to me, bent over, and dragging up a lot of seaweed he had for a
more curious, Flask--you know how curious all dreams are-- through all this rage
my little man, I kicked my leg right off!  And then, presto!  Ahab seemed a
I dreamed he kicked me with it; and when I tried to kick back, upon my soul,
     Next morning Stubb accosted Flask.  Such a
chimney hag.  seeing he wasn't going to stop saying over his "wise Stubb, wise
Stubb," I thought I might as well fall to kicking the pyramid again.  But I
had only just lifted my foot for it, when he roared out, "Stop that kicking!"

he;"let's argue the insult.  Captain Ahab kicked ye, didn't he?" "Yes, he
did," says I --"right here it was." "Very good," says he --"he used his ivory
.. < chapter xxxi 2  QUEEN MAB >
.. <p 127 >
what have you to complain of?  Didn't he kick with right good will?  it wasn't
a common pitch pine leg he kicked with, was it?  No, you were kicked by a
Ahab lurchingly paced the planks.
it an honor.  Listen, wise Stubb.  In old England the greatest lords think it
great glory to be slapped by a queen, and made garter-knights of; but, be
instant the ship shot by the bubble the sinking pipe made.  With slouched hat,
smoking to windward all the while; to windward, and with such nervous
have I been unconsciously toiling, not pleasuring, --aye, and ignorantly
Ahab.  Some moments passed, during which the thick vapor came from his mouth
that pyramid?"  With that, he all of a sudden seemed somehow, in some queer
fashion, to swim off into the air.  I snored; rolled over; and there I was
Khan of the plank, and a king of the sea, and a great lord of Leviathans was
it seems a sort of foolish to me, tho'.  May be, may be.  But it's made a
whereas, if a broad footed farmer kicked me, there's a devilish broad insult.
stern?  Well, the best thing you can do, Flask, is to let that old man alone;
of the tusks of the narwhale.  How could one look at Ahab then, seated on that
and also his pipe.  lighting the pipe at the binnacle lamp and planting the
     When Stubb had departed, Ahab stood for a
wise man of me, Flask.  D'ye see Ahab standing there, sideways looking over the
Flask?  ain't there a small drop

of something queer about that, eh?  a white whale--did ye mark that, man?  Look
ye see a white one, split your lungs for him!  What d'ye think of that now,
that that's bloody on his mind.  But, mum; he comes this way.
.. < chapter xxx 4  THE PIPE >
.. <p 126 >
.. <p 126 >
--How?  how?  how? --but the only way's
deep; but soon we shall be lost in its unshored, harborless immensities.  Ere
me?  I don't stand right on my legs.  Coming afoul of that old man has a sort
somehow.  It flashed like a bleached bone.  What the devil's the matter with
     did kick me, and I didn't observe it, I was so taken all aback with his brow,

more special leviathanic revelations and allusions of all sorts which are to
follow.  It is some systematized exhibition of the whale in his broad genera,
that I would now fain put before you.  Yet is it no easy task.  The
     blazes!  he called me ten times a donkey, and piled a lot of jackasses on

humorousness, hinted that if Captain Ahab was pleased to walk the planks,
Zoology is so much involved as that which is entitled Cetology, says Captain
     for a snooze.  Damn me, it's worth a fellow's while to be born into the
into the inquiry as to the true method of dividing the cetacea into groups
and families....  Utter confusion exists among the historians of this animal

     Ain't that queer, now?  But there's no telling, it's the old game --Here goes
second mate, came up from below, and with a certain unassured, deprecating
research in the unfathomable waters.  Impenetrable veil covering our

the whale, the great Cuvier, and John Hunter, and Lesson, those lights of
ye--there's something special in the wind.  Stand by for it, Flask.  Ahab has
yet of books there are
keep me from catching it.  He's full of riddles; I wonder what he goes into
--worse nor a toothache.  Well, well; I don't know what it is, but the Lord
whales.  many are the men, small and great, old and new, landsmen and seamen,
greatest joke of the dream, Flask.  While I was battering away at the
man, but I was frightened.  Such a phiz!  But, somehow, next moment I was over
him?  Yes, that was the thought coming up in me; but it would be the first
back and strike him, or --what's that? -- down here on my knees and pray for
     It's very queer.  Stop, Stubb; somehow, now, I don't well know whether to go

Author of Miriam Coffin; Olmstead; and the Rev.  T. Cheever.  But to what
ultimate generalizing purpose all these have written, the above cited extracts
will show.  Of the names in this list of whale authors, only those following
.. <p 125 >
begone, or I'll clear the world of thee!  As he said this, Ahab advanced upon
the Greenland or right-whale, he is the best existing authority.  But Scoresby
knew nothing and says nothing of the great sperm whale, compared with which
the Greenland whale is almost unworthy mentioning.  And here be it said, that
the Greenland whale is an usurper upon the throne of the seas.  He is not even
dog, sir.  Then be called ten times a donkey, and a mule, and an ass, and
     No, sir; not yet, said Stubb, emboldened, I will not tamely be called a
invested the then fabulous and utterly unknown sperm-whale, and which
ignorance to this present day still reigns in all but some few scientific
retreats and whale-ports; this usurpation has been every way complete.

I do but less than half like it, sir.  Avast!  gritted Ahab between his set
them the monarch of the seas.  But the time has at last come for a new
proclamation.  This is Charing Cross; hear ye!  good people all, --the
exclamation of the so suddenly scornful old man, Stubb was speechless a
at last. --Down, dog, and kennel!  Starting at the unforeseen concluding
know Ahab then.  Am I a cannon-ball, Stubb, said Ahab, that thou wouldst
attempt.  Those books are Beale's and Bennett's; both in their time surgeons
to English South-Sea whale-ships, and both exact and reliable men.  The
and the insertion into it, of the ivory heel.  Ah!  Stubb, thou did'st not
Scoresby, A. D.
necessarily small; but so far as it goes, it is of excellent quality,
though mostly confined to scientific description.  As yet, however, the sperm
whale, scientific or poetic, lives not complete in any literature.  Far above
knowledge of the cetacea.  A field strewn with thorns.  All these
whales need some sort of popular comprehensive classification, if only an easy
outline one for the present, hereafter to be filled in all its departments by
his wearied mates, seeking repose within six inches of his ivory heel, such
crippled way.  Some considerating touch of humanity was in him; for at times
ere long the old man would emerge, griping at the iron banister, to help his
but with some cautiousness dropt it to its place, for fear of disturbing
various species, or-- in this place at least --to much of any description.  My
object here is simply to project the draught of a systematization of cetology.
.. <p 124 >

bottom of the sea after them; to have one's hands among the unspeakable
foundations, ribs, and very pelvis of the world; this is a fearful thing.
letter-sorter in the Post-office is equal to it.  To grope down into the
hauled upon the forecastle, the sailors flung it not rudely down, as by day,
merely lend new spells and potencies to the outward world.  Inward they turned
with thee?  Behold the hope of him is vain!  But I have swam through
deck sentinelled the slumbers of the band below; and when if a rope was to be
--he would mutter to himself, -- for an old captain like me to be descending
preliminaries to settle.  first: the uncertain, unsettled condition of this
science of Cetology is in the very vestibule attested by the fact, that in
some quarters it still remains a moot point whether a whale be a fish.  In his
It was so with Ahab; only that now, of late, he seemed so much to live in
greybeards will oftenest leave their berths to visit the night-cloaked deck.
from the fish.  But of my own knowledge, I know that down to the year
Old age is always wakeful; as if, the longer linked with life, the less man
sharks and shad, alewives and herring, against Linnaeus's express edict, were
still found dividing the possession of the same seas with the Leviathan.  The
And all these subtle agencies, more and more they wrought on Ahab's texture.
tauntings in Job might well appal me.  Will he (the leviathan) make a covenant
the whales from the waters, he states as follows: On account of their warm
overflowing, redundant days, were as crystal goblets of Persian sherbet,
and icebergs all astern, the Pequod now went rolling through the bright Quito
     Some days elapsed, and ice
united in the opinion that the reasons set forth were altogether insufficient.
zoology and anatomy.  Nevertheless, though of real knowledge there be little,
yours, I should like to know, Mr. Humpback?  Do you want a

     But ere stepping into the cabin doorway below, he pauses, ships a new face
.. < chapter xxxv 2  THE MAST-HEAD >
.. <p 151 >
gloom!
shut up in the caved trunk of his body, there fed upon the sullen paws of its
most American whalemen the mast-heads are manned almost simultaneously with
that in due rotation with the other seamen my first mast-head came round.  In
sucking his own paws; so, in his inclement, howling old age, Ahab's soul,
Missouri.  And as when Spring and Summer had departed, that wild Logan of the
He lived in the world, as the last of the Grisly Bears lived in settled
otherwise than hungry, more or less.  For what he ate did not so much relieve
of the port, does she altogether relinquish the hope of capturing one whale
a permanent thing, residing in the open air.  Nor did they lose much hereby;
the vessel's leaving her port; even though she may have fifteen thousand
take it, that the earliest standers of mast-heads were the old Egyptians;
of the Pequod might more properly be said to have lived out of the cabin than
any time, permitted there.  So that, in real truth, the mates and harpooneers
In this one matter, Ahab seemed no exception to most American whale captains,
salt-sea warriors would rise and depart; to his credulous, fable-mongering
soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast, then Flask must bestir
vanity of glory: there's the insanity of life!  Besides, if it were so that
but a buckler.  in good time, though, to his great delight, the three
Island days, Queequeg, for one, must certainly have been guilty of some
for their lances and other weapons; and with which whetstones, at dinner,
stair-like formation of all four sides of those edifices; whereby, with
prodigious long upliftings of their legs, those old astronomers were wont to
palsy.  Nor did the whetstone which the harpooneers carried in their pockets,
.. <p 150 >
giants made or nourished.  But Queequeg, he had a mortal, barbaric smack of
stone pillar in the desert and spent the whole latter portion of
and superb a person.  But, doubtless, this noble savage fed strong and drank
mouthfuls he could keep up the vitality diffused through so broad, baronial,
the last person down at the dinner,
very ancient and interesting one, let us in some measure expatiate here.  I
Daggoo seated on the floor, for a bench would have brought his hearse-plumed
adjoining, and fearfully peep out at them through the blinds of its door,
demanded, he would escape from their clutches into his little pantry
iron, and bronze men; who, though well capable of facing out a stiff gale,
Commonly, after seeing the harpooneers furnished with all things they
bankrupt baker and a hospital nurse.  And what with the standing spectacle of
himself, the chances were Ahab had never so much as noticed it.  Least of all,
careless, now, who rules the decks below; whether Louis Philippe, Louis
Dough-Boy's memory by snatching him up bodily, and thrusting his head into a
towering main-mast in Baltimore, and like one of Hercules' pillars, his
in the first degree.  Had he helped himself at that table, doubtless, never
Tashtego had an ungentlemanly way of accelerating him by darting a fork at his
not lively about it, if he did not go with a nimble hop-skip-and-jump, then
was not to be driven from his place by fogs or frosts, rain, hail, or sleet;
appetites had Queequeg and Tashtego, that to fill out the vacancies made by
.. <p 149 >
the distracted decks upon which they gaze; however it may be surmised, that
their spirits penetrate through the thick haze of the future, and descry what
portentous
filled their bellies like Indian ships all day loading with spices.  Such
care-free license and ease, the almost frantic democracy of those inferior
that in truth it is not so, is plainly evinced by an item for which Obed
and nameless invisible domineerings of the captain's table, was the entire
steward.  And then the three harpooneers were bidden to the feast, they being
regularly launched in pursuit of the game, the people of that island erected
mates formed what may be called the first table in the Pequod's cabin.  After
capacity, all that sailor had to do, in order to obtain ample vengeance, was
any mere sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask in Flask's official
dinner-table of invited guests, that man's unchallenged power and dominion of
this custom has now become obsolete; turn we then to the one proper mast-head,
that of a whale-ship
banquet at Frankfort, where the German Emperor profoundly dines with the seven
Flask, have for ever departed from my stomach.  I am an officer; but, how I
seamen taking their regular turns (as at the helm), and relieving each other
manned to the last; and not till her skysail-poles sail in among the spires
meat as though receiving alms; and cut it tenderly; and a little started if,
against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the deck.  Therefore it was
himself, he will not get more than three mouthfuls that day; for it is
we cannot give these Babel builders priority over the Egyptians.  And that the
once sailed between the boots of the famous Colossus at old Rhodes.  There you
said to have gone by the board, in the dread gale of God's wrath; therefore,
waves.  The tranced ship indolently rolls; the drowsy trade winds blow;
is but a peg higher than Flask, happens to have but a small appetite, and
whaling life, a sublime uneventfulness invests you; you hear no news; read
no gazettes; extras with startling accounts of commonplaces never delude you
and Flask is the first man up.  Consider!  For hereby Flask's dinner was badly
securities; fall of stocks; are never troubled with the thought of what you
shall have for dinner --for all your meals for three years and more are snugly
stowed in casks, and your bill of fare is immutable.  In one of those southern
whalemen, on a long three or four years' voyage, as often happens, the sum of
the various hours you spend at the mast-head would amount to several entire
.. <p 148 >
him we have a remarkable instance of a dauntless stander-of-mast-heads; who
sadly destitute of anything approaching to a cosy inhabitiveness, or adapted
to breed a comfortable localness of feeling, such as pertains to a bed, a
did flask presume to help himself to butter.  Whether he thought the owners of
Vendome, stands with arms folded, some one hundred and fifty feet in the air;
most usual point of perch is the head of the t' gallant-mast, where you stand
upon two thin parallel sticks (almost peculiar to whalemen) called the t'
column marks that point of human grandeur beyond which few mortals will go.
presumed to help himself, this must have seemed to him tantamount to larceny
yet given that a hidden hero is there; for where there is smoke, must be
properly speaking the thickest watch-coat is no more of a house than the
himself was dumb.  What a relief it was to choking Stubb, when a rat made a
awful silence; and yet at table old Ahab forbade not conversation; only he
of its fleshly tabernacle, and cannot freely move about in it, nor even move
out of it, without running great risk of perishing (like an ignorant pilgrim
     Imperial Electors, so these cabin meals were somehow solemn meals, eaten in

shelf or chest of drawers in your body, and no more can you make a
descrying the game, gave notice to the ready-manned boats nigh the beach.  But
presence, in the character of Abjectus, or the Slave.  It is not the least
those enviable little tents or pulpits, called crow's-nests, in which the
every two hours.  In the serene weather of the tropics it is exceedingly
Ahab thereby motioned Starbuck's plate towards him, the mate received his
for the world they would have profaned that moment with the slightest
for the re-discovery of the Lost Icelandic Colonies of Old Greenland; in
this admirable volume, all standers of mast-heads are furnished with a
children before Ahab; and yet, in Ahab, there seemed not to lurk the smallest
Over his ivory-inlaid table, Ahab presided like a mute, maned sea-lion on the
inventor and patentee, and free from all ridiculous false delicacy, and
it the Sleet's crow's-nest, in honor of himself; he being the original
.. <p 147 >
after ourselves any other apparatus we may beget.  In shape, the Sleet's
among the strange things bred by the intense artificialness of sea-usages,
crow's-nest is something like a large tierce or pipe; it is open above,
however, where it is furnished with a movable side-screen to keep to windward
of your head in a hard gale.  Being fixed on the summit of the mast, you
Belshazzar's, for Belshazzar was not the greatest.  Who has but once dined
or side next the stern of the ship, is a comfortable seat, with a locker
underneath for umbrellas, comforters, and coats.  In front is a leather rack,
convenient closet of your watch-coat.  Concerning all this, it is much to be
Babylon; and to have been Belshazzar, not haughtily but courteously,
nest of his, he tells us that he always had a rifle with him (also fixed in
the rack), together with a powder flask and shot, for the purpose of popping
off the stray narwhales, or vagrant sea unicorns infesting those waters; for
you cannot successfully shoot at them from
difference?  A problem?  Perhaps not.  To have been Belshazzar, King of
ten to one, let those very officers the next moment go down to their customary
his friends, has tasted what it is to be Caesar.  It is a witchery of social
to describe, as he does, all the little detailed conveniences of his
but noiseless squall of a hornpipe right over the Grand Turk's head; and
treats us to a very scientific account of his experiments in this crow's-nest,
with a small compass he kept there for the purpose of counteracting the
you may carry your house aloft with you, in the shape of a watch-coat; but
your legs, as it were, swim the hugest monsters of the sea, even as ships
all predestinated.  I heard not all his talk with Starbuck; but to my poor
How the three pines shake!  Pines are the hardest sort of tree to live when
Steady, helmsman!  steady.  This is the sort of weather when brave hearts snap
and say to himself, how d'ye do?  Partners!  I must have partners!  Sicilian
ashore, and keeled hulls split at sea.  Our captain has his birth-mark; look
black.  Daggoo What of that?  Who's afraid of black's afraid of me!  I'm
captain's commanded. -- 1st Nantucket Sailor Oh, boys, don't be sentimental;
gay and fleeting As bubbles that swim, on the beaker's brim, And break on the
might readily have prophesied it --for when I clapped my eye upon his skull I
old grudge makes me touchy. ( Advancing.) Aye, harpooneer, thy race is the
We are the lads to hunt him up his whale!  All Aye!  aye!  Old Manx Sailor
quarried out of it!  Spanish Sailor ( Aside.) He wants to bully, ah! --the
maty; it's too springy to my taste.  I'm used to ice-floors.  I'm sorry to
his orders, mind ye that.  I heard old Ahab tell him he must always kill a
right into it!  English Sailor Blood!  but that old man's a grand old cove!
storm-lashed guns, on which the sea-salt cakes! 4th Nantucket Sailor He has
afraid than the isle fort at Cattegat, put there to fight the Baltic with
.. <p 173 >
brawlers!  Humph!  Belfast Sailor A row!  arrah a row!  The Virgin be blessed,
a row!  Plunge in with ye!  English Sailor Fair play!  Snatch the Spaniard's
knife!  A ring, a ring!  Old Manx Sailor Ready formed.  There!  the ringed
horizon.  In that ring Cain struck Abel.  Sweet work, right work!  No?  Why
then, God, mad'st thou the ring?  Mate's Voice from the Quarter Deck Hands by
the halyards!  in top-gallant sails!  Stand by to reef topsails!  All The
done!  The mate there holds ye to it stiffly.  He's no more
Sailor Crack, crack, old ship!  so long as thou crackest, thou holdest!  Well
are just crossing swords, pell-mell they'll go lunging presently.  Danish
goes the jib-stay!  Blang-whang!  God!  Duck lower, Pip, here comes the royal
thine, mannikin!  White skin, white liver!  Spanish Sailor ( meeting him)
mat, but the soft soil has slid!  I saw thee woven in the wood, my mat!
--the Heeva-Heeva!  Ah!  low veiled, high palmed Tahiti!  I still rest me on thy
--flutterings!  lip!  heart!  hip!  all graze: unceasing touch and go!  not
undeniable dark side of mankind --devilish dark at that.  No offence.  Daggoo
.. <p 175 >
There's naught so sweet on earth --heaven may not match it! --as those swift
all the waves were women, then I'd go drown, and chassee with them evermore!
jingle all over like my tambourine --that anaconda of an old man swore 'em in
to hunt him!  Oh, thou big white God aloft there somewhere in yon darkness,
.. <p 172 >
     Meantime the sky darkens -- the wind rises.)
filliping to others.  We sing; they sleep --aye, lie down there, like
.. <p 175 >

--give us a whiff, Tash. ( They cease dancing, and gather in clusters.
had gone up with the rest; my oath had been welded with theirs; and
stronger I shouted, and more did I hammer and clinch my oath, because of the
Sailor Spell oh! --whew!  this is worse than pulling after whales in a calm
ballroom of it.  Dance on, lads, you're young; I was once. 3d Nantucket
murderous monster against whom I and all the others had taken our oaths of
violence and revenge.  For some time past, though at intervals only, the
unaccompanied, secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly
night-women, that beat head-winds round corners.  O Christ!  to think of the
dance over your grave, I will --that's the bitterest threat of your
the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to him, was
small indeed.  For, owing to the large number of whale-cruisers; the
Sailor Rattle thy teeth, then, and pound away; make a pagoda of thyself.
Jinglers, you say? --there goes another, dropped off; I pound it so.  China
eight, thou Pip!  thou blackling!  and let me call the watch.  I've the sort
as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch, to encounter
separate voyage; the irregularity of the times of sailing from home; all
these, with other circumstances, direct and indirect, long obstructed
     sleep or lie among the coils of rigging.  Oaths a-plenty.) Azore

never fail!  While the bold harpooneer is striking the whale!  Mate's Voice
that several vessels reported to have encountered, at such or such a time, or
on such or such a meridian, a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and
.. <p 171 >
     tambourine up the scuttle.)
say, that the whale in question must have been no other than moby Dick.  Yet
fine whales, Hand, boys, over hand!  So, be cheery, my lads!  may your hearts
unfrequent instances of great ferocity, cunning, and malice in the monster

     comes the music; now for it!  Azore Sailor ( Ascending, and pitching the
to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred, more, as it were, to the perils of
the Sperm Whale fishery at large, than to the individual cause.  In that way,

grasshopper!  Long-Island Sailor Well, well, ye sulkies, there's plenty more
Whale, by chance caught sight of him; in the beginning of the thing they had
Sailor Aye; girls and a green! --then I'll hop with ye; yea, turn
any other whale of that species.  But at length, such calamities did ensue in
shifted to any other soil, and here there's none but the crew's cursed clay.
or devouring amputations --but fatal to the last degree of fatality; those
it will, I'll go to it laughing.  Such a waggish leering as lurks in all your
long in working. 5th Nantucket Sailor What's that I saw--lightning?  Yes.
Throw yourselves!  Legs!  Legs!  Iceland Sailor I don't like your floor,
these assaults --not restricted to sprained wrists and ancles, broken limbs,
true histories of these deadly encounters.  For not only do fabulous rumors
     sleepy.) Don't know where it is.  French Sailor Beat thy belly, then, and

in that of terra firma, wild rumors abound, wherever there is any adequate
reality for them to cling to.  And as the sea surpasses the land in this
matter, so the whale fishery surpasses every other sort of maritime life, in
the wonderfulness and fearfulness of the
     French Sailor Hist, boys!  let's have a jig or two before we ride to anchor

unexempt from that ignorance and superstitiousness hereditary to all sailors;
but of all sailors, they are by all odds the most directly brought into
'em through it.  Tell 'em to avast dreaming of their lasses.  Tell 'em it's
they not only eye its greatest marvels, but, hand to jaw, give battle to
them.  Alone, in such remotest waters, that though you sailed a thousand
.. < chapter xli 9  MOBY DICK >
.. <p 170 >
latitudes and longitudes, pursuing too such a calling as he does, the whaleman
is wrapped by influences all tending to make his fancy pregnant with many a
mighty birth.  No wonder, then, that ever gathering volume from the mere
transit over the widest watery spaces, the outblown rumors of the White Whale
     scuttle,)  Star--bo--l-e-e-n-s, a-h-o-y!  Eight bells there below!  Tumble

invested Moby Dick with new terrors unborrowed from anything that visibly
appears.  So that in many cases such a panic did he finally strike, that few
who by those rumors, at least, had heard of the White Whale, few of those
hunters were willing to encounter the perils of his jaw.  But there were still
a single news-telling sail of any sort; the inordinate length of each
individualizing tidings concerning Moby Dick.  It was hardly to be doubted,
from all other species of the leviathan, died out of the minds of the whalemen
as of late the Sperm Whale fishery had been marked by various and not
     follow.) Our captain stood upon the deck, A spy-glass in his hand, A
courageous enough in offering battle to the Greenland or Right whale, would
perhaps --either from professional inexperience, or incompetency, or timidity,
decline a contest with the Sperm Whale; at any rate, there are plenty of
whalemen, especially among those whaling nations not sailing under the

whose sole knowledge of the leviathan is restricted to the ignoble monster
primitively pursued in the North; seated on their hatches, these men will
come what will, one comfort's always left -- that unfailing comfort is, it's
tales of
     lying in various attitudes, all singing in chorus.) Farewell and

Whale anywhere more feelingly comprehended, than on board of those prows which
legendary times thrown its shadow before it; we find some book naturalists
lirra, skirra!  Oh-- We'll drink to-night with hearts as light, To love, as
     rises and discovers the watch standing, lounging, leaning, and

ferocious as continually to be athirst for human blood.  Nor even down to so
harpooneers, I dare say, gay as a frigate's pennant, and so am I--fa, la!
     ( Foresail

against the rocks with such violence as to cause instantaneous death.  And
at home doing now?  Crying its eyes out? --Giving a party to the last arrived
however the general experiences in the fishery may amend such reports as
terrors, and often in the precipitancy of their flight dash themselves
.. <p 169 >
and portents concerning him, not a few of the fishermen recalled, in reference
stem him.  And as if the now tested reality of his might had in former
these; yet in their full terribleness, even to the bloodthirsty item of
aye, sir, just through with this job --coming.
other leviathans might be hopefully pursued, yet to chase and point lance at
such an apparition as the Sperm Whale was not for mortal man.  That to attempt
vocation, revived in the minds of the hunters.  So that overawed by the rumors
yard!  It's worse than being in the whirled woods, the last day of the year;
late a time as Cuvier's, were these or almost similar impressions effaced.
to Moby Dick, the earlier days of the Sperm Whale fishery, when it was
were, who even in the face of these things were ready to give chase to Moby
wild rumors of all sorts fail to exaggerate, and still the more horrify the
without superstitious accompaniments, were sufficiently hardy not to flee
your white squalls, they.  White squalls?  white whale, shirr!
yonder, boys, there's another in the sky --lurid-like, ye see, all else pitch
creatures in his green northern home, so that the strange muskiness he smells
.. < chapter xliii 10  HARK >
.. <p 194 >
adoring cherubim!
Polar bear frightens us with so unnatural a contrast.  But even assuming all
in some peaceful valley of Vermont, far removed from all beasts of prey --why
is it that upon the sunniest day, if you but shake a fresh buffalo robe
Heaven, when the white fowl flew to join the wing-folding, the invoking, and
of annihilation, when beholding the white depths of the milky way?  Or is it,
     But I doubt not, that leathern tally, meant for man, was taken off in
of the quarter-deck, they were careful not to speak or rustle their feet.
arises from the circumstance, that the irresponsible ferociousness of the


fain go still deeper into this matter, that it is not the whiteness,
hatches --don't you hear it --a cough--it sounded like a cough.  Cough be
     tell; with a treacherous hook and line, as the fowl floated on the sea.  At
like two or three sleepers turning over, now!  Caramba!  have done,
scuttle-butt near the taffrail.  In this manner, they passed the buckets to
over inside of ye --nothing else.  Look to the bucket!

fowl.  But how had the mystic thing been caught?  Whisper it not, and I will
With reference to the Polar bear, it may possibly be urged by him who would
shipmate, will ye?  It's the three soaked biscuits ye eat for supper turning
sea from Nantucket; you're the chap.  Grin away; we'll see what turns up.
frequently seen, but never with such emotions as when I beheld the Antarctic
assert, then, that in the wondrous bodily whiteness of the bird chiefly
heard Stubb tell Flask, one morning watch, that there was something of that
sort in the wind.  Tish!  the bucket!
burnish a little brighter the noble merit of the poem and the poet.  I
.. <p 188n. >
albatross.  So that by no possibility could Coleridge's wild Rhyme have had
     A goney, he replied.  Goney!  I never had heard that name before;  is it
cabin after the squall that took place on the night succeeding that wild
ratification of his purpose with his crew, you would have seen him go to a
locker in the transom, and bringing out a large wrinkled roll of yellowish
sea charts, spread them before him on his screwed-down table.  Then seating

     then.  But at last I awoke; and turning, asked a sailor what bird was this.
if
refer to piles of old log-books beside him, wherein were set down the seasons

of plumage.  I cannot tell, can only hint, the things that darted through me
suspended in chains over his head, continually rocked with the motion of the
ship, and for ever threw shifting gleams and shadows of lines upon his
the occasional flap of a sail, and the steady hum of the unceasingly
before the angels, I bowed myself; the white thing was so white, its wings
tracing lines and courses upon the deeply marked chart of his forehead.  But
it was not this night in particular that, in the solitude of
eyes, methought I peeped to secrets which took hold of God.  As Abraham
throbbings shook it.  Though bodily unharmed, it uttered cries, as some
     main hatches, I saw a regal, feathery thing of unspotted whiteness, and
were substituted.  For with the charts of all four oceans before him, Ahab
was threading a maze of currents and eddies, with a view to the more certain

     prolonged gale, in waters hard upon the Antarctic seas.  From my forenoon
hopeless task thus to seek out one solitary creature in the unhooped oceans of
this planet.  But not so did it seem to Ahab, who knew the sets of all tides

call him Requin.  I remember the first albatross I ever saw.  It was during a
him in particular latitudes; could arrive at reasonable surmises, almost
death in this shark, and the mild deadliness of his habits, the French
that ground in search of his prey.  So assured, indeed, is the fact concerning
the periodicalness of the sperm whale's resorting to given waters, that many
other funereal music.  Now, in allusion to the white, silent stillness of
world; were the logs for one voyage of the entire whale fleet carefully
(eternal rest),  whence Requiem denominating the mass itself, and any
strangely tallies with the same quality in the Polar quadruped.  This
color, and at the same time the concrete of all colors; is it for these
ghostliness of repose in that creature, when beheld in his ordinary moods,
cordon, extending from one of the fresh-water butts in the waist, to the
advancing keel.  It was in the midst of this repose, that Archy, one of the
secret intelligence from the Deity --mostly swim in
bucket, will ye, Archy?  what noise d'ye mean?  There it is again --under the
     Say what ye will, shipmate; I've sharp ears.  Aye, you are the chap, ain't
.. <p 187n. >
with such undeviating exactitude, that no ship ever sailed her course, by any
chart, with one tithe of such marvellous precision.  Though, in these cases,
colored and coloring glasses upon their eyes, so the wretched infidel gazes
though the line of advance be strictly confined to its own unavoidable,
straight wake, yet the arbitrary vein in which at these times he is said to
before us a leper; and like wilful travellers in Lapland, who refuse to wear
appeals with such power to the soul; and more strange and far more portentous
the whale-ship's mast-heads, when circumspectly gliding along this magic
wrinkled brow, till it almost seemed that while he himself was marking out
great principle of light, for ever remains white or colorless in itself, and
consider that the mystical cosmetic which produces every one of her hues, the
actually inherent in substances, but only laid on from without; so that all
widest expanses of water between those grounds he could, by his art, so place
somewhere those things must exist.  Though in many of its aspects this visible
butterfly cheeks of young girls; all these are but subtile deceits, not
And when we consider that other theory of the natural philosophers, that all
prairies; all these, to Ishmael, are as the shaking of that buffalo robe to
perhaps.  Though the gregarious sperm whales have their regular seasons for
reasons that there is such a dumb blankness, full of meaning, in a wide
prairies, which this instant they may be trampling into dust.  Thus, then,
season; though there are peculiar and unquestionable instances where the
It was the middle-watch; a fair moonlight; the seamen were standing in a
     is, the intensifying agent in things the most appalling to mankind.  Is it
sperm whales.  So that though Moby Dick had in a former year been seen, for
example, on what is called the Seychelle ground in the Indian ocean, or

pequod to visit either of those spots at any subsequent corresponding season,
--why, as we have seen, it is at once the most meaning symbol of spiritual
additional courses over spaces that before were blank.  At intervals, he would
grounds, where he had at times revealed himself.  But all these seemed only
his casual stopping-places and ocean-inns, so to speak, not his places of
prolonged abode.  And where Ahab's chances of accomplishing
and time himself on his way, as even then not to be wholly without prospect of
particular grounds, yet in general you cannot conclude that the herds which
whatever way-side, antecedent, extra prospects were his, ere a particular set
time or place were attained, when all possibilities would become
On this hint, attempts have been made to construct elaborate migratory charts
to a certainty.  That particular set time and place were conjoined in the one
technical phrase --the Season-on-the-Line.  For there and then, for several
.. <p 193 >
predicted interval in any one sign of the Zodiac.  There it was, too, that
those waters for awhile, as the sun, in its annual round, loiters for a
instinct of the knowledge of the demonism in the world.  Though
monomaniac old man had found the awful motive to his vengeance.  But in the
waves were storied with his deeds; there also was that tragic spot where the
     cannot recall to him anything associated with the experience of former

all his hopes upon the one crowning fact above mentioned, however flattering
it might be to those hopes; nor in the sleeplessness of his vow could he so
the Pequod had sailed from Nantucket at the very beginning of the
tranquillize his unquiet heart as to postpone all intervening quest.  Now,
zone.  The sum is, that at particular seasons within that breadth and along
ye, that heard the hum of the old Quakeress's knitting-needles fifty miles at
and such as indicated resentment and fury.  He came directly from the shoal

.. < chapter xlvii 14  THE MAT-MAKER >
events, the whole circumstances taken together, all happening before my own
exact manoeuvres which he made were necessary.  His aspect was most horrible,
into the lead-colored waters.  Queequeg and I were mildly employed weaving
.. <p 212 >
reporting even a porpoise.  This vigilance was not long without reward.
resolved into his own invisible self.  I was the attendant or page of
the seamen were lazily lounging about the decks, or vacantly gazing over
profession.  be all this as it may, his voice was now often heard hailing the
three mast-heads and admonishing them to keep a bright look-out, and not omit
analytic to be verbally developed here, Ahab plainly saw that he must still
to evince all his well known passionate interest in the general pursuit of his
or even frustrate it.  it might be that a long interval would elapse ere the
attention to every minute atmospheric influence which it was possible for his
.. <p 212 >
and hand, backed by a heedful, closely calculating
water, carelessly and unthinkingly drove home every yarn: I say so strange a
     That protection could only consist in his own predominating brain and heart

vibration, and that vibration merely enough to admit of the crosswise
interblending of other threads with its own.  This warp seemed necessity; and
gaining ground, Ahab must of course have been most anxious to protect himself.
impunity, both moral and legal, his crew if so disposed, and to that end
indifferent sword, sometimes hitting the woof slantingly, or crookedly, or
strongly, or weakly, as the case might be; and by this difference in the
laid himself open to the unanswerable charge of usurpation; and with perfect
cashier Ahab.  Nor was there wanting still another precautionary motive more
go by, and no perspective promise of it to them, and then this same
of all hopes of cash --aye, cash.  They may scorn cash now; but let some months
interweavingly working together.  The straight warp of necessity, not to be
swerved from its ultimate course --its every alternating vibration, indeed,
only tending to that; free will still free to ply her shuttle between given
threads; and chance, though restrained in its play within the right lines of
gaining other pious perquisites by the way.  Had they been strictly held to
daily appetites.  For even the high lifted and chivalric Crusaders of old
a certain generous knight-errantism in them, still, while for the love of it
evanescent.  The permanent constitutional condition of the manufactured man,
ball of free will dropped from my hand, and I stood gazing up at the clouds
weaving away at the Fates.  There lay the fixed
mad Gay-Header, Tashtego.  His body was reaching eagerly forward, his hand
for any object remote and blank in the pursuit, however promissory of life
.. <p 211 >
air; but from few of those lungs could that accustomed old cry have derived
influential with him.  It would be refining too much, perhaps, even
over the seas, from hundreds of whalemen's look-outs perched as high in the
over you half suspended in air, so wildly and eagerly peering towards the
announcement of his quest; yet all sailors of all sorts are more or less
blows!  there!  there!  there!  she blows!  she blows!
if this were otherwise, there were not wanting other motives much more
Moby Dick.  For however eagerly and impetuously the savage crew had hailed the
it; that the full terror of the voyage must be kept withdrawn into the
be stripped of that strange imaginative impiousness which naturally invested
noways more significantly manifested than in his superlative sense and
same undeviating and reliable uniformity.  And thereby whalemen distinguish
shadows of Fate, and by those wild cries announcing their coming.  There she
him.  Not only that, but the subtle insanity of Ahab respecting Moby Dick was
fall into open relapses of rebellion against his captain's leadership, unless
White Whale was seen.  During that long interval Starbuck would ever be apt to
the exact minute to Ahab.  The ship was now kept away from the wind, and she
this fish from other tribes of his genus.  There go flukes!  was now the cry
dreaminess did there then reign all over the ship and all over the sea, only
captain's quest, and could he, would joyfully disintegrate himself from it,
complete spiritual man any more than mere corporeal superiority involves
concealed beneath the surface, mills round, and swiftly swims off in the
opposite quarter --this deceitfulness of his could not now be in action; for
there was no reason to suppose that the fish seen by Tashtego had been in any
way alarmed, or indeed knew at all of our vicinity.  One of the men selected
in some respects was over Starbuck, yet that ascendency did not cover the
get out of order.  He knew, for example, that however magnetic his ascendency
mizzen had come down; the line tubs were fixed in their places; the cranes
went gently rolling before it.  Tashtego reporting that the whales had gone
sea like three samphire baskets over high cliffs.  Outside of the bulwarks
be the hated one he hunted.  But if such an hypothesis be indeed
multiplied the chances that each subsequently encountered whale would prove to
.. <p 210 >
With a start all glared at dark Ahab, who was surrounded by five dusky
and the horrid aspect and revenge of the whale, wholly engrossed my
phantoms that seemed fresh formed out of air.
cannot now recall), induce me to be satisfied that I am correct in my
altogether to abandon the collateral prosecution of the voyage.  Or at least
     Though, consumed with the hot fire of his

seemed, were flitting on the other side of the deck, and, with a noiseless
celerity, were casting loose the tackles and bands of the boat which swung
such a marvellous cadence as from Tashtego the Indian's.  As he stood hovering
technically called the captain's, on account of its hanging from the
.. < chapter xlvi 22  SURMISES >
there.  This boat had always been deemed one of the spare boats, though
Chinese jacket of black cotton funereally invested him, with wide black
trowsers of the same dark stuff.  But strangely crowning his ebonness was a
glistening white plaited turban, the living hair braided and coiled round
.. <p 209 >
were of that vivid, tiger-yellow complexion peculiar to some of the aboriginal
natives of the Manillas; --a race notorious for a certain diabolism of
--he speaks of the mysterious and mortal attack of the animal.
counting-room they suppose to be elsewhere.  While yet the wondering ship's
hospitable shore.  The dark ocean and swelling waters were nothing; the
reflections, until day again made its appearance.  In another place --p. 45,
secret confidential agents on the water of the devil, their lord, whose
was the half-hissed reply.  Lower away then; d'ye hear?  shouting across the
were thrust out; the mainyard was backed, and the three boats swung over the
     rocks, with all the other ordinary subjects of fearful contemplation, 

the sailors, goat-like, leaped down the rolling ship's side into the tossed
what is called a sword-mat, for an additional lashing to our boat.  So still
whence that voice dropped like a wing.  High aloft in the cross-trees was that
while, with a dexterous, off-handed daring, unknown in any other vocation,
with one white tooth evilly protruding from its steel-like lips.  A rumpled
white-turbaned old man at their head, All ready there, Fedallah?  Ready,
height of a whaleman's discretion?  Certain.  I've lowered for whales from a
boat.  now, with the subordinate phantoms, what wonder remained soon waned
involve the remotest suspicion as to any boat's crew being assigned to that
leaking ship in a gale off Cape Horn.  Mr. Flask, said I, turning to
hunt that mortal monster in person.  But such a supposition did by no means
little King-Post, who was standing close by; you are experienced in these
particular preparative heedfulness in Ahab must only be with a view to the
interest and curiosity at the time.  But almost everybody supposed that this
ships themselves often pick up such queer castaway creatures found tossing
not create any unsubduable excitement in the forecastle.  But be all this as
straightened it a little there; all these things, I say, had awakened much
place among the crew, though still as it were somehow distinct from them,
the side and step down into the cabin to chat with the captain, and it would
exactly shaping the thigh board, or clumsy cleat, as it is sometimes called,
tie he soon evinced himself to be linked with Ahab's peculiar fortunes; nay,
so far as to have some sort of a half-hinted influence; Heaven knows, but
line is running out are pinned over the groove in the bow: when all this was
.. <p 229 >
cutting the small wooden skewers, which when the
devil fetch the hindmost.
domestic people in the temperate zone only see in their dreams, and that but
dimly; but the like of whom now and then glide among the unchanging Asiatic
     for what was thought to be one of the spare boats, and even solicitously

family vault.  now then, thought i, unconsciously rolling up the sleeves of
our own particular boat was chiefly to be
generations, when the memory of the first man was a distinct recollection,
found bestirring himself in the matter of making thole-pins with his own hands
real phantoms, and asked of the sun and the moon why they were created and to
unaccountable odds and ends of strange nations come up from the unknown nooks
what end; when though, according to genesis, the angels indeed consorted
hinted his desires on that head.  Nevertheless he had taken private measures
Therefore he had not solicited a boat's crew from them, nor had he in any way
him as a regular headsman in the hunt --above all for Captain Ahab to be
of the chase, for the sake of being near the scene of action and giving his
circumstances is it wise for any maimed man to enter a whale-boat in the
sail, the ivory Pequod had slowly swept across four several cruising-grounds;
that off the Azores; off the Cape de Verdes; on the Plate (so called),
that every individual moment, indeed, then comprises a peril; under these
unstaked, watery locality, southerly from St.  Helena.  It was while gliding
through these latter waters that one serene and moonlight night, when all
But with Ahab the question assumed a modified aspect.  Considering that with
invaluable life of his ought to be carried into the thickest of the fight.
silent night a silvery jet was seen far in advance of the white bubbles at
the bow.  Lit up by the moon, it looked celestial; seemed some plumed and
So Tamerlane's soldiers often argued with tears in their eyes, whether that
Among whale-wise people it has often been argued whether, considering the
and stand a look-out there, with the same precision as if it had been day.
And yet, though herds of whales were seen by night, not one whaleman
Flask.  If his leg were off at the hip, now, it would be a different thing.
in a hundred would venture a lowering for them.  You may think with what
emotions, then, the seamen beheld this old Oriental perched aloft at such
unusual hours; his turban and the moon, companions in one sky.  But when,
.. <p 228 >
with the daughters of men, the devils also, add the uncanonical Rabbins,
voice was heard announcing that silvery, moon-lit jet, every reclining
account, said
it, Flask!  cried Stubb; if I had but one leg you would not catch me in a
judgment blown, they could not have quivered more; yet still they felt no
terror; rather pleasure.  for though it was a most unwonted hour, yet so
     Who would have thought

side-lunging strides, Ahab commanded the t'gallant sails and royals to be set,
.. < chapter L 27  AHAB'S BOAT AND CREW.  FEDALLAH >
.. <p 227 >
Then, with every mast-head manned, the piled-up craft rolled down before the
wind.  The strange, upheaving, lifting tendency of the taffrail breeze filling
the hollows of so many sails, made the buoyant, hovering deck to feel like
an indifferent air concerning Fedallah.  He was such a creature as civilized,
days still preserve much of the ghostly aboriginalness of earth's primal
to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal.  And had you watched Ahab's face
that night, you would have thought that in him also two different things were
warring.  While his one live leg made lively echoes along the deck, every
like a quiet ghost with a clean conscience sitting inside the bars of a snug
Lazarus lived after his resurrection; a supplementary clean gain of so many
Besides, all the days I should now live would be as good as the days that
like arrows, the eager glances shot, yet the silvery jet was no more seen
that night.  Every sailor swore he saw it once, but not a second time.  This
midnight-spout had almost grown a forgotten thing, when, some days after, lo!
had done the same thing.  After the ceremony was concluded upon the present
fond of that diversion.  This was the fourth time in my nautical life that I
statement of the entire case.  Considering, therefore, that squalls and
     Queequeg, said I, come along, you shall be my lawyer, executor, and

or starlight, as the case might be; disappearing again for one whole day, or
two days, or three; and somehow seeming at every distinct repetition to be

imputed to Starbuck's driving on to his whale almost in the teeth of a squall,
in accordance with the preternaturalness, as it seemed, which in many
things invested the Pequod, were there wanting some of the seamen who swore
that whenever and wherever descried; at however remote times, or in however
.. <p 227 >
     insulated, immemorial, unalterable countries, which even in these modern
     sense of peculiar dread at this flitting apparition, as if it were
back-foremost into death's jaws?  Can't you twist that smaller?  said Flask.
into the hands of him who steered the boat --oftentimes a fellow who at that
round upon us, and rend us at last in the remotest and most savage seas.
had never been.  And so it served us night after night, till no one heeded it
its blue blandness, some thought there lurked a devilish charm, as for days
mind that!  here then, from three impartial witnesses, i had a deliberate
     Yes, that's the law.  I should like to see a boat's crew backing water up to a

life before our urn-like prow.  But, at last, when turning to the eastward,
the Cape winds began howling around us, and we rose and fell upon the long,
the blast, and gored the dark waves in her madness, till, like showers of
treacherously beckoning us on and on, in order that the monster might turn
troubled seas that are there; when the ivory-tusked Pequod sharply bowed to
vacuity of life went away, but gave place to sights more dismal than before.
yet that hair-turbaned Fedallah remained a muffled mystery to the last.
without uttering a single sound; when, after all this silence, his unearthly
Nevertheless, so potent an influence did this thing have on those seamen in
as publicly narrated on the ship, the whole of this strange affair I now
conveniently imagine, gentlemen.  Therefore when he betrayed this solicitude
little inclined to any sort of nervous apprehensiveness touching his own
person as any fearless, unthinking creature on land or on sea that you can
found gaining once more, there was in truth some small concern manifested by
anxious.  Much this way had it been with the Town-Ho; so when her leak was
style in which I once narrated it at Lima, to a lounging circle of my Spanish
bubbling from
accessible coast, or if any other reasonable retreat is afforded them.  It is
the breeze.  Now this Radney, I suppose, was as little of a coward, and as
lee scupper-holes.  Now, as you well know, it is not seldom the case in this
for a voyage of considerable length; that is, if it lie along a tolerably
probability would be that he and his shipmates would never again remember it,
superior in general pride of manhood, straightway against that man he
at the furthest after pointing her prow for her island haven, that the
Steelkilt --but, gentlemen, you shall hear.  It was not more than a day or two
heap of dust of it.  Be this conceit of mine as it may, gentlemen, at all
events Steelkilt was a tall and noble animal with a head like a Roman, and a
.. <p 244 >
snorting charger; and a brain, and a heart, and a soul in him, gentlemen,
the pumps ran across the deck, and poured itself out in steady spouts at the
human recognition which is the meanest slave's right; thus
     though in after life he had long followed our austere Atlantic and your
mate drawing near as he was toiling at the pump with the rest, the Lakeman
affected not to notice him, but unawed, went on with his gay banterings.

the rippling clear water; clear as any mountain spring, gentlemen --that
what, men, old Rad's investment must go for it!  he had best cut away his part
have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach, to nurse at his maternal sea;
for out of sight of land, however inland, they have drowned full many a
alike the full-rigged merchant ship, the armed cruiser of the State, the
capitals of Buffalo and Cleveland, as well as Winnebago villages; they float
     for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient and unentered forests, where
playing the devil with his estate, I can tell him.  But he's a simple old
soul, -- Rad, and a beauty too.  Boys, they say the rest of his property is

and by the goat-like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw; they have heard the fleet
maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East,
by two great contrasting nations, as the Atlantic is; they furnish long
expansiveness, with many of the ocean's noblest traits; with many of its
Ontario, and Huron, and Superior, and Michigan, --possess an ocean-like
interflowing aggregate, those grand fresh-water seas of ours --Erie, and
rather heavy weather, the ship still continued her cruisings, the mariners
their hats off to it, and ere long that peculiar gasping of the lungs was
been nurtured by all those agrarian
far manilla; this lakeman, in the land-locked heart of our America, had yet
panting, and sat himself down on the windlass; his face fiery red, his eyes
Lake Erie, Don; but--I crave your courtesy--may be, you shall soon hear further
Sebastian, rising in his swinging mat of grass.  On the eastern shore of our
that corporeally exasperated state, I know not; but so it happened.
--Buffalo!  Pray, what is a Lakeman, and where is Buffalo?" said Don
vengeance of Steelkilt, a Lakeman and desperado from Buffalo.  "Lakeman!
matters consequent upon allowing a pig to run at large.  Now, gentlemen,
     the Town-Ho had all but certainly arrived in perfect safety at her port

be done in the case of ships actually foundering at the time.  Such,
gentlemen, is the inflexibility of sea-usages and the instinctive love of
neatness in seamen; some of whom would not willingly drown without first
washing their faces.  But in all vessels this broom business is the
prescriptive province of the boys, if boys there be aboard.  Besides, it was
founder by the way, because his pumps were of the best, and being
turns at the pumps; and being the most athletic seaman of them all,
sail, stood away for the nearest harbor among the islands, there to have
increased.  So much so, that now taking some alarm, the captain, making all
now!"  And with that the pump clanged like fifty fire-engines; the men tossed
could not find it after searching the hold as low down as was possible in
common.  They supposed a sword-fish had stabbed her, gentlemen.  But the
daily usage, it was observed that she made more water in her hold than
shovel was almost as plainly meant to sting and insult Steelkilt, as though
gentlemen, the Town-Ho, Sperm
understand this; and all this and doubtless much more, the Lakeman fully
prior to my first learning the events which I am about rehearsing to you,
     friends, one saint's eve, smoking upon the thick-gilt tiled piazza of the

perceived the stacks of powder-casks heaped up in him and the slow-match
silently burning along towards them; as he instinctively saw all this, that
strange forbearance and unwillingness to stir up the deeper passionateness in
ye, and let's have a taste.  By the Lord, it's worth bottling!  I tell ye
which had made Steelkilt Charlemagne, had he been born son to Charlemagne's
as ready to change his berth for a boat, and with his bandaged mouth seek to
day his craft first struck the cruising ground; and Radney the mate was quite
her captain was just as willing to lower for a fish that moment, as on the
seems, in a boat.  And now his bandaged cry was, to beach him on the whale's
spear in hand, Radney sprang to the bow.  He was always a furious man, it
start; and none howled more fiercely with delight than did Steelkilt, as he
strained at his oar.  After a stiff pull, their harpooneer got fast, and,
of command.  Moreover, when the four boats were lowered, the mate's got the
his duty to sit next him, while Radney stood
The mutineer was the bowsman of the mate, and when fast to a fish, it was
spray, and, for an instant, was dimly seen through that veil, wildly seeking
struck as against a sunken ledge, and keeling over, spilled out the standing
sudden maelstrom; seized the swimmer between his jaws; and rearing high up
to remove himself from the eye of Moby Dick.  But the whale rushed round in a
     and with curses, the appalling beauty of the vast milky mass, that lit up by

himself in the end, shipmate?" and going to the mate, he looked at him
knife to the line.  He cut it; and the whale was free.  But, at some
mates, and harpooneers, who, undeterred by fearful rumors, were all anxious
shirt, caught in the teeth that had destroyed him.  All four boats gave chase
a phrensy.  "The White Whale --the White Whale!" was the cry from captain,
time, the Town-Ho reached her port --a savage, solitary place --where no
civilized creature resided.  There, headed by the Lakeman, all but five or
excitement of the moment, the Teneriffe man had instinctively and
it turned out, seizing a large double war-canoe of the savages, and setting
sail for some other harbor.  The ship's company being reduced to but a
I proceed. --Now, gentlemen, so suddenly perceiving the snowy whale within
looks faint; --fill up his empty glass!"  No need, gentlemen; one moment, and
Dons --nay, nay!  I cannot rehearse that now.  Let me get more into the air,
topmost back.  Nothing loath, his bowsman hauled him up and up, through a
a story." "How?  how!" cried all the young Spaniards, crowding.  "Nay, Dons,
and famous, and most deadly immortal monster, Don; --but that would be too long
there?" said a shipmate.  "What do you think?  what does it look like?"
they were in such a weakened condition that the captain durst not put off with
shouted out, "There she rolls!  there she rolls!"  Jesu, what a whale!  It
damning thing he would have done.  It was just between daybreak and sunrise of
Heaven itself seemed to step in to take out of his hands into its own the
revenge he had, and without being the avenger.  For by a mysterious fatality,
setting the sail of his best whale-boat, steered straight before the wind for
saved the would-be murderer from the bloody deed he had planned.  Yet complete
.. <p 257 >
come; and in
have touched at a low isle of corals.  He steered away from it; but the
savage craft bore down on him; and soon the voice of Steelkilt hailed him to
heave to, or he would run him under water.  the captain presented a pistol.
as he was tucking the coat into his hammock for a pillow.  Twenty-four hours
to scorn; assuring him that if the pistol so much as clicked in the lock, he
vigilance over their dangerous allies was this small
closely netted, partly rolled from the pocket of the Lakeman's monkey jacket,
--neither twine nor lanyard were seen again; but the next night an iron ball,
me board you a moment --I come in peace."  With that he leaped from the canoe,
swam to the boat; and climbing the gunwale, stood face to face with the
But a sudden, terrific, downward jerking of the boat, quickly brought his
any?"  But there was none in the forecastle.  "Then I must get some from old
island, and remain there six days.  If I do not, may lightnings strike me!"
"but I think it will answer.  Shipmate, I haven't enough twine, --have you
sea, he swam back to his comrades.  Watching the boat till it was fairly
beached, and drawn up to the roots of the cocoa-nut trees, Steelkilt made sail
 "Like a lanyard for your bag; but it's an odd one, seems to me." "Yes,
hard work they underwent, that upon the vessel being ready again for sea,
were providentially in want of precisely that number
braiding something very carefully in his watches below.  "What are you making
Steelkilt calculated his time, and found that his next trick at the helm
of their former captain, had he been at all minded to work them legal
retribution.  Some ten days after the French ships sailed, the whale-boat
attitude, it was well known, he sometimes dozed.  There was a considerable
     During the night, Radney had an unseamanlike way of sitting on the
schooner, he returned with them to his vessel; and finding all right there,
again resumed his cruisings.  Where Steelkilt now is, gentlemen, none know;

which refuses to give up its dead; still in dreams sees the awful white whale
that destroyed him.  "Are you through?" said Don Sebastian, quietly.  "I am,
     upon resuming the head of his watch at night.  Upon this, and one or two

get it from an unquestionable source?  Bear with me if I seem to press."
of his heart.  He was in Radney the chief mate's watch; and as if the
.. <p 256 >
Holy Evangelists in the Golden Inn, gentlemen?" "Nay," said Don Sebastian;
suit," cried the company, with exceeding interest.  "Is there a copy of the
private revenge upon the man who had stung him in the ventricles
would bury him in bubbles and foam.  "What do you want of me?  cried the
with him, plunged headlong again, and went down.  Meantime, at the first tap
Go and gaze upon all the paintings in Europe, and where will you find such a
Who Garnery the painter is, or was, I know not.  But my life for it he was
by some experienced whaleman.  The French are the lads for painting action.
in Nantucket, and New Bedford, and Sag Harbor, you will come across lively
other like skrimshander articles, as the whalemen call the numerous little
ingenious contrivances they elaborately carve out of the rough material, in
ruefully contemplating his own amputation.  Throughout the Pacific, and also
sketches of whales and whaling-scenes, graven by the fishermen themselves on
at any rate; and his stump as unquestionable a stump as any you will find in
stump-speech does the poor whaleman make; but, with downcast eyes, stands
that almost omnipotent tool of the sailor, they will turn you out anything
come.  His three whales are as good whales as were ever published in Wapping,
.. <p 270 >
King of the Cannibals; and ready at any moment to rebel against him.  Now,
himself h.  durand.  one of them, though not precisely
one of the peculiar characteristics of the savage in his domestic hours, is
his wonderful patience of industry.  An ancient Hawaiian war-club or
savage as an Iroquois.  I myself am a savage; owning no allegiance but to the
exhibited
integrity) is being crunched by the jaws of the foremost whale.  Any time
net-work has been achieved; and it has cost steady years of steady
one of the boats (presumed to contain the missing leg in all its original
    

.. <p 271 >
microscopic diligence of a Leuwenhoeck submits to the inspection of a
packed in its maziness of design, as the Greek savage, Achilles's shield;
.. <p 269 >
quite as workmanlike, but as close
of the small dark slabs of the noble South Sea war-wood, are frequently met
spear-paddle, in its full multiplicity and elaboration of carving, is as
like a rearing horse.  From the ship, the smoke of the torments of the boiling
chase to whales in the distance.  The harpoons and lances lie levelled for
sleepy, the anvil-headed whale would be best.  But these knocking whales are
seldom remarkable as faithful essays.  On the spires of some old-fashioned
boat, hurriedly pushing off from this scene of activity, is about giving
they are so elevated, and besides that are to all intents and purposes so
labelled with Hands off!  you cannot examine them closely enough to decide
to quicken the activity of the excited seamen.
 (in the act of cutting-in) hove over to the monster as if to a quay; and a
Leviathan partly merged in grass, which of a windy day breaks against them in
a surf of green surges.  Then, again, in mountainous countries where the
as the vacant profile of the whale; which, so far as picturesqueness of
hall at Versailles; where the beholder fights his way, pell-mell, through the
traveller is continually girdled by amphitheatrical heights; here and there
of whales defined along the undulating ridges.  But you must be a thorough
upon their merit.  In bony, ribby regions of the earth, where at the base of
to such a sight again, you must be sure and take the exact intersecting
background, both drooping together in the breezeless air.  The effect is very
accounts.  It is a quiet noon-scene among the isles of the Pacific; a French
require a laborious re-discovery; like the Solomon islands, which still
remain incognita, though once high-ruffed Mendanna trod them and old Figuera
adapted to our present purpose, nevertheless deserves mention on other
.. <p 269 >
are these sea battle-pieces of Garnery.  The natural aptitude of the French for
as when long filled with thoughts of war the Eastern nations saw armies locked
gallery of living and breathing commotion on canvas, as in that triumphal
but in so important a matter it was certainly an oversight not to have
Northern Lights, and the successive armed kings and Emperors dash by, like a
me.  And beneath the effulgent Antarctic skies I have boarded the Argo-Navis,
the Pole with the revolutions of the bright points that first defined him to
a stiff full length of the Greenland whale, and three or four delicate
pyramid.  Even Scoresby, the justly renowned Right whaleman, after giving us
fasces of harpoons for spurs, would I could mount that whale and leap the
topmost skies, to see whether the fabled heavens with all their countless
tents really lie encamped beyond my mortal sight!
effect is concerned, is about tantamount to sketching the profile of a
from some lucky point of view you will catch passing glimpses of the profiles
only finished sketches at all capable of conveying the real spirit of the
whaleman, to see these sights; and not only that, but if you wish to return
their hours of ocean leisure.  Some of them have little boxes of
consecutive great battles of France; where every sword seems a flash of the
fine, when considered with reference to its presenting the hardy fishermen
in battle among the clouds.  Thus at the North have I chased Leviathan round
wheat.  On the second day, numbers of Right Whales were seen, who, secure
with in the forecastles of American whalers.  Some of them are done with much
you please, in the way of a mariner's fancy.  Long exile from Christendom and
and some ten or twenty fathoms (called box-line) being coiled upon the box in
harpoon, by your side.
     terror, than though seated before your evening fire with a poker, and not a

     If to Starbuck the apparition of
composing the crew pull into the jaws of death, with a halter around every
in a slight festoon over the bows, and is then passed inside the boat again;
object.  When you see him 'quid, said the savage, honing his harpoon in the
silent, subtle, ever-present perils of life.  And if you be a philosopher,
the Squid was a thing of portents, to Queequeg it was quite a different
the Pequod's crew could hardly resist the spell of sleep induced by such a
though seated in the whale-boat, you would not at heart feel one whit more of
vacant sea.  For this part of the Indian Ocean through which we then were
     this is a thing which carries more of true terror than any other aspect of

in-shore ground off Peru.  It was my turn to stand at the foremast-head; and
voyaging is not what whalemen call a lively ground; that is, it affords
     and the ball, and the explosion; so the graceful repose of the line, as it

was exceedingly still and sultry, and with nothing special to engage them,
went out of my body; though my body still continued to sway as a pendulum
will, long after the power which first moved it is withdrawn.  Ere
and prophesies of the storm, is perhaps more awful than the storm itself;
.. <p 281 >
us lifelessly swung from the spars, and for every swing that we made there
was a nod from below from the slumbering helmsman.  The waves, too, nodded
himself could never pierce you out.  Again: as the profound calm which only
west, and the sun over all.  Suddenly bubbles seemed bursting beneath my
escape being made a Mazeppa of, and run away with where the all-seeing sun
because the boat is rocking like a cradle, and you are pitched one way and
It is worse; for you cannot sit motionless in the heart of these perils,
an Ethiopian hue, glistening in the sun's rays like a mirror.  But lazily
every direction.  All the oarsmen are involved in its perilous contortions; so
in the water like the capsized hull of a frigate, his broad, glossy back, of
his vapory jet, the whale looked like a portly burgher smoking his pipe of a
undulating in the trough of the sea, and ever and anon tranquilly spouting
some enchanter's wand, the sleepy ship and every sleeper in it all at once
and lost.  For, when the line is darting out, to be seated then in the boat,
the vessel, simultaneously with the three notes from aloft, shouted forth the
chronicled --of this man or that man being taken out of the boat by the line,
account for those repeated whaling disasters --some few of which are casually
his own order, he dashed the helm down before the helmsman could handle the
spokes.  The sudden exclamations of the crew must have alarmed the whale; and
harpoon; but previous to that connexion, the short-warp goes through sundry
and, like the six burghers of Calais before King Edward, the six men
not an oar should be used, and no man must speak but in whispers.  So seated
of a common quill, prevents it from slipping out.  From the chocks it hangs
contortions be put in play like ringed lightnings; he cannot be thus
any unknown instant the harpoon may be darted, and all these horrible
that thinking after all he might not as yet be alarmed, Ahab gave orders that
noiseless sails being set.  Presently, as we thus glided in chase, the
intricacies, and while straining his utmost at the oar, bethink him that at
sank out of sight like a tower swallowed up.  There go flukes!  was the cry,
mortal woman, for the first time, seat himself amid those hempen
and is then
boat in its complicated coils, twisting and writhing around it in almost
counted upon the honor of the capture.  It was obvious, now, that the whale
had at length become aware of his pursuers.  All silence of cautiousness was
the smoker's boat, and much nearer to it than to any of the others, Stubb
therefore no longer of use.  Paddles were dropped, and oars came loudly into
warm afternoon.  But that pipe, poor whale, was thy last.  As if struck by
attached to the short-warp --the rope which is immediately connected with the
.. <p 280 >
mad yeast which he brewed.  Start her, start her, my men!  Don't hurry
thunder-claps,  that's all, cried Stubb, spluttering out the smoke as he
we swiftly but silently paddled along; the calm not admitting of the
with my shoulders leaning against the slackened royal shrouds, to and
yourselves; take plenty of time --but start her; start her like
withstand it; in that dreamy mood losing all consciousness, at last my soul
all engaging one unusually strong, active, and knowing whale; when owing to
captured and a corpse.  Consider, now, how it must be in the case of four boats
of affairs.  One small, helping cause of all this liveliness in Stubb, was
intemperately fond of the whale as a flavorish thing to his palate.  A steak,
official superior, quietly resigned to him for the time the sole management
.. <p 291 >
conquest, betrayed an unusual but still good-natured excitement.  Such an
general thing, and according to the great military maxim, make the enemy
defray the current expenses of the war (at least before realizing the
proceeds of the voyage), yet now and then you find some of these Nantucketers
several harpoons to bend on to the line should the first one be ineffectually
least so far as could be known on deck, Stubb, his second mate, flushed with
clanking links, the vast corpse itself, not the ship, is to be moored.  Tied
oil, Stubb stoutly stood up to his spermaceti supper at the capstan-head,
along the deck, and thrust rattling out of the port-holes.  But by those
soon made strangely manifest.  Stubb was a high liver; he was somewhat
     all that would not one jot advance his grand, monomaniac object.  Very soon

smackingly feasted on its fatness.  The few sleepers below in their bunks were
often startled by the sharp slapping of their tails against the hull, within
in him; as if the sight of that dead body reminded him that Moby Dick was
see them (as before you heard them) wallowing in the sullen, black waters,
dead, some vague dissatisfaction, or impatience, or despair, seemed working
the whale of the bigness of a human head.  This particular feat of the shark
seems all but miraculous.  How, at such an apparently unassailable surface,
they contrive to gouge out such symmetrical mouthfuls, remains a part of the
universal problem of all things.  The mark they thus leave on the whale, may
evinced his customary activity, to call it so; yet now that the creature was
morning.  Though, in overseeing the pursuit of this whale, Captain Ahab had
sharks will be seen longingly gazing up to the ship's decks, like hungry dogs
round a table where red meat is being carved, ready to bolt down every killed
.. <p 290 >

.. <p 292 >
thus cannibally carving each other's live meat with carving-knives all gilded
and tasselled, the sharks, also, with their jewel-hilted mouths, are
junk at the rate of a mile an hour; but this grand argosy we towed heavily
whale's flesh that night.  Mingling their mumblings with his own mastications,
same thing, that is to say, a shocking sharkish business enough for all
China, four or five laborers on the foot-path will draw a bulky freighted
ships crossing the Atlantic, systematically trotting alongside, to be handy
in case a parcel is to be carried anywhere, or a dead slave to be decently
as we eighteen men with our thirty-six arms, and one hundred and eighty
touching the set terms, places, and occasions, when sharks do most socially
congregate, and most hilariously feast; yet is there no conceivable time or
distance from the ship.  It was a calm; so, forming a tandem of three boats,
more jovial spirits, than around a dead sperm whale, moored by night to a
whale-ship at sea.  If you have never seen that sight, then suspend your
     Stubb's whale had been killed some

banquet that was going on so nigh him, no more than the sharks heeded the
darted without recovery.  All these particulars are faithfully narrated here,
he cried at length, widening his legs still further, as if to form a more
secure base for his supper; and, at the same time darting his fork into the
.. < chapter lxiv 16  STUBB'S SUPPER >
his warm hammock at a most unseasonable hour, came shambling along from his
the old black, not in any very high glee at having been previously routed from
.. <p 289 >
Fleece, as they called him, came shuffling and limping along, assisting his
as they will not fail to elucidate several most important, however intricate
iron hoops; this old Ebony floundered along, and in obedience to the word of
step with his tongs, which, after a clumsy fashion, were made of straightened
smacking of his own epicurean lips.  Cook, cook! --where's that old Fleece?
when,
who have a genuine relish for that particular part of the Sperm Whale
with both hands folded before him, and resting on his two-legged cane, he
you to turn the whole affair upside down, it would still be pretty much the

     The old monks of Dunfermline were very fond of them.  They had a great
.. <p 299 >
a young buck with an intelligent looking calf's head before him, is somehow
hundred feet long, it takes away your appetite.  Only the most unprejudiced
at him, with an Et tu Brute!  expression.  It is not, perhaps, entirely
indeed, requires uncommon discrimination.  And that is the reason why
eating of him with abhorrence; that appears to result, in some way, from the
dining upon calves' brains, by and by get to have a little brains of their
and every one knows that some young bucks among the epicures, by continually
one of the saddest sights you can see.  The head looks a sort of reproachfully
man that ever murdered an ox was regarded as a murderer; perhaps he was hung;
own, so as to be able to tell a calf's head from their own heads; which,
casket of the skull is broken into with an axe, and the two plump, whitish
In the case of a small Sperm Whale the brains are accounted a fine dish.  The
of dead quadrupeds.  Does not that sight take a tooth out of the cannibal's
jaw?  Cannibals?  who is not a cannibal?  I tell you it will be more tolerable
Nevertheless, many whalemen have a method of absorbing it into some other
month of its growth, yet far too rich to supply a substitute for butter. 
somewhat resembling calves' head, which is quite a dish among some epicures;
nailest geese to the ground and feastest on their bloated livers in thy
as the buffalo's (which is esteemed a rare dish), were it not such a solid
     They have such an eatable look that the most self-denying stranger can hardly
the day of judgment, than for thee, civilized and enlightened gourmand, who
there, my civilized and enlightened gourmand dining off that roast beef,
thing of the sea, and eat it too by its own light.  But no doubt the first

are a species of whale.  Porpoises, indeed, are to this day considered fine
indite his circulars?  It is only within the last month or two that that
mouldy scraps of whales which had been left ashore after trying out the
a whaling vessel --that these men actually lived for several months on the
infants, as being exceedingly juicy and nourishing.  And this reminds me
Zogranda, one of their most famous doctors, recommends strips of blubber for
.. <p 298 >
captured Sperm Whale, after long and weary toil, is brought alongside late at
night, it is not, as a general thing at least, customary to proceed at once
to the business of cutting him in.  For that business is an exceedingly

a'lee; and then send every one below to his hammock till daylight, with the
reservation that, until that time, anchor-watches shall be kept; that is,
society passed a resolution to patronize nothing but steel pens.
two and two for an hour, each couple, the crew in rotation shall mount the
much of him; but when you come to sit down before a meat-pie nearly one
of sharks gather round the moored carcase, that were he left so for six
what is that handle made of? --what but the bones of the brother of the very ox
you are eating?  And what do you pick your teeth with, after devouring that
and soft as satin; that is, previous to being dried, when it not only
any rate, it is pleasant to read about whales through their own spectacles,
contracts and thickens, but becomes rather hard and brittle.  I have several
other phenomena which the exterior of the Sperm Whale presents, he not
allusion to the Indian rocks reminds me of another thing.  Besides all the
part of the regular linear appearance, by reason of numerous rude scratches,
seldom displays the back, and more especially his flanks, effaced in great
a plate representing the old Indian characters chiselled on the famous
the hieroglyphics upon one Sperm Whale in particular, I was much struck with
full-grown bulls of the species.  A word or two more concerning this matter
marks do not seem to be impressed upon the isinglass substance above
stript from him in long pieces, called blanket-pieces.  Like most sea-terms,
the proper skin of the tremendous whale is thinner and more tender than the
array, something like those in the finest Italian line engravings.  But these
better, an Indian poncho slipt over his head, and skirting his extremity.  It
is by reason of this cosy blanketing of his body, that the whale is enabled to
keep himself comfortable in all weathers, in all seas, times, and tides.
skin of the skin, so to speak; for it were simply ridiculous to say, that
.. <p 305 >
exceedingly brisk in those Hyperborean waters; but these, be it observed, are
the least among the many marvels he presents.  Almost invariably it is all
the north, if unsupplied with his cosy surtout?  True, other fish are found
of whose mere
is considered that, in quantity, or rather weight, that oil, in its expressed
Sperm Whale, will yield the bulk of one hundred barrels of oil; and, when it
then --except after explanation --that this great monster, to whom corporeal
those rocks must not a little resemble the Sperm Whale in this particular.  It
this one is very happy and significant.  For the whale is
warmth is as indispensable as it is to man; how wonderful that he should be
violent scraping contact with vast floating icebergs --I should say, that
as you may say.  But what I am driving at here is this.  That same infinitely
negro in summer.  It does seem to me, that herein we see the rare virtue of a
when seamen fall overboard, they are sometimes found, months afterwards,
your cold-blooded, lungless fish, whose very bellies are refrigerators;
and hooded head; and hanging there in the midst of so intense a calm, it
erecting himself, while whole thunder-clouds swept aside from his brow.
foundations.  Where unrecorded names and navies rust, and untold hopes and
lookest hoary with mosses; speak, mighty head, and tell us the secret thing
seen enough to split the planets and make an infidel of Abraham, and not one
borne a righteous husband to outstretched, longing arms.  O head!  thou hast
each other, when heaven seemed false to them.  Thou saw'st the murdered mate
stood leaning over with eyes attentively fixed on this head.  It was a black
man!  how far beyond all utterance are your linked analogies!  not the
flaming ship; heart to heart they sank beneath the exulting wave; true to
mind.
anchors rot; where in her murderous hold this frigate earth is ballasted with
main-masthead.  Aye?  Well, now, that's cheering, cried Ahab, suddenly
syllable is thine!  Sail ho!  cried a triumphant voice from the
.. <p 310 >
that head upon which the upper sun now gleams, has moved amid this world's
to rock.  By and by, through the glass the stranger's boats and manned
that way, and to my breezelessness bring his breeze!  O Nature, and O soul of
a god.  Such things may seem incredible; but, however wondrous, they are

Beware of the horrible plague!  Gabriel, Gabriel!  cried Captain Mayhew;
ahead, and its seethings drowned all speech.  Hast thou seen the White Whale?
demanded Ahab, when the boat drifted back.  Think, think of thy whale-boat,
ever; declaring that the plague, as he called it, was at his sole command;
mates; and since the epidemic had broken out, he carried a higher hand than
said for some moments, while a succession of riotous waves rolled by, which
Gabriel started to his feet.  Think, think of the fevers, yellow and bilious!
.. <p 314 >
Gabriel was seen eyeing it with rather more apprehensiveness than his
Pequod.  I fear not thy epidemic, man, said Ahab from the bulwarks
archangel nature seemed to warrant.  When this interlude was over, Captain
frequent interruptions from Gabriel, whenever his name was mentioned, and
that-- But again the boat tore ahead as if dragged by fiends.  Nothing was
the crazy sea that seemed leagued with him.  It seemed that the Jeroboam had
stoven and sunk!  Beware of the horrible tail!  I tell thee again, Gabriel,
-- Think, think of the blasphemer --dead, and down there! --beware of the
blasphemer's end!  Ahab stolidly turned aside; then said to Mayhew,
his feet, glaring
.. <p 316 >
one of thy officers, if I mistake not.  Starbuck, look over the bag.  Every
whale-ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships, whose
