
the picture lies thus tranced, and though this pine-tree shakes down its sighs
shepherd's eye were fixed upon the magic stream before him.  Go visit the
overlapping spurs of mountains bathed in their hill-side blue.  But though
sleepy smoke.  Deep into distant woodlands winds a mazy way, reaching to
when for scores on scores of miles you wade knee-deep among Tiger-lilies--what
mouth; whenever it is a damp, drizzly November in my soul; whenever I find
thought, fancied, and sung of Leviathan, by many nations and generations,
quietest, most enchanting bit of romantic landscape in all the valley of the
regulating the circulation.  Whenever I find myself growing grim about the
as affording a glancing bird's eye view of what has been promiscuously said,
robust healthy boy with a robust healthy soul in him, at some time or other
crazy to go to sea?  Why upon your first voyage as a passenger, did you
yourself feel such a mystical vibration, when first told that you and your
ship were now out of sight of land?  Why did the old Persians hold the sea
watery part of the world.  It is a way I have of driving off the spleen, and
to interest me on shore, I thought I would sail about a little and see the
try this experiment, if your caravan happen to be supplied with a metaphysical
feet a-going, and he will infallibly lead you to water, if water there be in
long precisely --having little or no money in my purse, and nothing particular
ungraspable phantom of life; and this is the key to it all.  Now, when I say
that I am in the habit of going to sea whenever I begin to grow hazy about the
of men be plunged in his deepest reveries--stand that man on his legs, set his
by a pool in the stream.  There is magic in it.  Let the most absent-minded
please, and ten to one it carries you down in a dale, and leaves you there
in it.  Besides, passengers get sea-sick --grow quarrelsome --don't sleep of
cetology.  Far from it.  As touching the ancient authors generally, as well 
passenger; nor, though I am something of a salt, do I ever go to sea as a
the compasses of all those ships attract them thither?  Once more.  Say, you
such offices to those who like them.  For my part, I abominate all honorable
strike unsplinterable
in.  And there they stand--miles of them--leagues.  Inlanders all, they come
whale statements, however authentic, in these extracts, for veritable gospel
though I confess there is considerable glory in that, a cook being a sort of
land; loitering under the shady lee of yonder warehouses will not suffice.
your coming.  Here ye strike but splintered hearts together i{there}, ye shall
there is no one who will
and making refugees of long-pampered  Gabriel, Michael, and Raphael, against
here come more crowds, pacing straight for the water, and seemingly bound for
will.  It is out of the idolatrous dotings of the old Egyptians upon broiled
ibis and roasted river horse, that you see the mummies of those creatures in
in lath and plaster--tied to counters, nailed to benches, clinched to desks.
sailor, right before the mast, plumb down into the forecastle, aloft there
to the royal mast-head.  True, they rather order me about some, and make me
your friends who have gone before are clearing out the seven-storied heavens,
still better seaward peep.  But these are all landsmen; of week days pent up
of ships from China; some high aloft in the rigging, as if striving to get a
by so much the more shall ye for ever go thankless!
previous to putting your hand into the tar-pot, you have been lording it as a
country schoolmaster, making the tallest boys stand in awe of you.  The
transition is a keen one, I assure you, from the schoolmaster to a sailor,
some looking over the bulwarks glasses!
reveries.  Some leaning against the spiles; some seated upon the pier-heads;
street-stalls of the earth, picking up whatever random allusions to whales 
that indignity amount to, weighed, I mean, in the scales of the New
afternoon.  Go from Corlears Hook to Coenties Slip, and from thence, by
devil of a Sub-Sub appears to have gone through the long Vaticans and 
instance?  Who aint a slave?  Tell me that.  Well, then, however the old
sea-captains may order me about--however they may thump and punch me about, I
crowds of water-gazers there.  Circumambulate the city of a dreamy Sabbath
glasses, and in not altogether unpleasant sadness i{give} it up, sub-subs!
metaphysical point of view, that is; and so the universal thump is passed
round, and all hands should rub each other's shoulder-blades, and be
the battery, where that noble mole is washed by waves, and cooled by
and grow convivial upon tears; and say to them bluntly, with full eyes and empty 
but with whom one sometimes loves to sit, and feel poor-devilish, too;
there is all the difference in the world between paying and being paid.  The
by wharves as Indian isles by coral reefs--commerce surrounds it with her surf.
ocean with me.  There now is your insular city of the Manhattoes, belted round
ever warm; and for whom even Pale Sherry would be too rosy-strong;
thieves entailed upon us.  But being paid, --what will compare with it?  The
urbane activity with which a man receives money is really marvellous,
nothing surprising in this.  If they but knew it, almost all men in their
include reference to Professor Irey's work.
So fare thee well, poor devil of a Sub-Sub, whose commentator I am.
This text of Melville's Moby-Dick is based on the Hendricks House edition.
deck.  For as in this world, head winds are far more prevalent than winds
from astern (that is, if you never violate the Pythagorean maxim), so for
the most part the Commodore on the quarter-deck gets his atmosphere at second
hand from the sailors on the forecastle.  He thinks he breathes it first; but
people's hats off--then, I account it high time to get to sea as soon as I can.
other things, at the same time that the leaders little suspect it.  But
wherefore it was that after having repeatedly smelt the sea as a merchant
sailor, I should now take it into my head to go on a whaling voyage; this
from deliberately stepping into the street, and methodically knocking
upper hand of me, that it requires a strong moral principle to prevent me
rear of every funeral I meet; and especially whenever my hypos get such an
voyage, formed part of the grand programme of Providence that was drawn up a
myself involuntarily pausing before coffin warehouses, and bringing up the
including our own.
something like this: Grand Contested Election for the Presidency of the
Saco.  What is the chief element he employs?  There stand his trees, each with
It was prepared by Professor Eugene F. Irey at the University of Colorado.
managers, the Fates, put me down for this shabby part of a whaling voyage,
when others were set down for magnificent parts in high tragedies, and short
professor.  Yes, as every one knows, meditation and water are wedded for ever.
as the poets here appearing, these extracts are solely valuable or entertaining,
He was ever  dusting his old lexicons and grammars, with a queer handkerchief,
being cunningly presented to me under various disguises, induced me to set
about
are in the country; in some high land of lakes.  Take almost any path you
performing the part I did, besides cajoling me into the delusion that it was
Yet here they all unite.  Tell me, does the magnetic virtue of the needles of
from lanes and alleys, streets and avenues, --north, east, south, and west.
himself.  Such a portentous and mysterious monster roused all my curiosity.
Therefore you must not, in every case at least, take the higgledy-piggledy
undeliverable, nameless perils of the whale; these, with all the attending
marvels of a thousand Patagonian sights and sounds, helped to sway me to my
wish.  With other men, perhaps, such things would not have been inducements;
a dive.  Strange!  Nothing will content them but the extremest limit of the
gulp down your tears and hie aloft to the royal-mast with your  hearts; for
is good, I am quick to perceive a horror, and could still be social with
it--would they let me --since it is but well to be on friendly terms with all
the inmates of the place one lodges in.  By reason of these things, then, the
whaling voyage was welcome; the great flood-gates of the wonder-world swung
he could anyways find in any book whatsoever, sacred or profane.
Would that I could clear out Hampton Court and the Tuileries for ye!  But
most of them all, one grand hooded phantom, like a snow hill in the air.
around the town, stand thousands upon thousands of mortal men fixed in ocean
Whitehall northward.  What do you see?--Posted like silent sentinels all
breezes, which a few hours previous were out of sight of land.  Look at the
Cato throws himself upon his sword; I quietly take to the ship.  There is
carpet-bag, tucked it under my arm, and started for Cape Horn and the
Pacific.  Quitting the good city of old Manhatto, I duly arrived in New
It will be seen that this mere painstaking burrower and grubworm of a poor 
upon learning that the little packet for Nantucket had already sailed, and
that no way of reaching that place would offer, till the following Monday.  As
degree, some time or other, cherish very nearly the same feelings towards the
Thou belongest to that hopeless, sallow tribe which no wine of this world will 
stop at this same New Bedford, thence to embark on their voyage, it may as
well be related that I, for one, had no idea of so doing.  For my mind was
Extracts (supplied by a sub-sub-librarian.)
and any publications resulting from analysis of this data must
which amazingly pleased me.  Besides though New Bedford has of late been
gradually monopolizing the business of whaling, and though in this matter poor
mockingly embellished with all the gay flags of all the known nations of the world.
his meadow, and there sleep his cattle; and up from yonder cottage goes a
was stranded.  Where else but from Nantucket did those aboriginal whalemen,
the Red-Men, first sally out in canoes to give chase to the Leviathan?  And
where but from Nantucket, too, did that first adventurous little sloop put
     But here is an artist.  He desires to paint you the dreamiest, shadiest,
all that region.  Should you ever be athirst in the great American desert,
harpoon from the bowsprit?  Now having a night, a day, and still another night
following before me in New Bedford, ere I could embark for my destined port,
it became a matter of concernment where I was to eat and sleep meanwhile.  It
was a very dubious-looking, nay, a very dark and dismal night, bitingly cold
.. < chapter I 2  LOOMINGS >
The pale Ushei{rthreadbare} in coat, heart, body, and brain; I see him now.
wherever you go, Ishmael, said I to myself, as I stood in the middle of a
dreary street shouldering my bag, and comparing the gloom towards the north
with the darkness towards the south --wherever in your wisdom you may conclude
to lodge for the night, my dear Ishmael, be sure to inquire the price, and
No.  They must get just as nigh the water as they possibly can without falling
How then is this?  Are the green fields gone?  What do they here?  But look!
there.  Further on, from the bright red windows of the Sword-Fish Inn, there
came such fervent rays, that it seemed to have melted the packed snow and ice
For by how much the more pains ye take to please the world,
thick in a hard, asphaltic pavement, --rather weary for me, when I struck my
foot against the flinty projections, because from hard, remorseless
Preliminary Matter.  
service the soles of my boots were in a most miserable plight.  Too expensive
and jolly, again thought I, pausing one moment to watch the broad glare in
the street, and hear the sounds of the tinkling glasses within.  But go on,
     Right and left, the streets take you waterward.  Its extreme down-town is
your patched boots are stopping the way.  So on I went.  I now by instinct
followed the streets that took me waterward, for there, doubtless, were the
He loved to dust his old grammars; it somehow mildly reminded him of his mortality.
     This is my substitute for pistol and ball.  With a philosophical flourish
candle moving about in a tomb.  At this hour of the night, of the last day of
the week, that quarter of the town proved all but deserted.  But presently I
a hollow trunk, as if a hermit and a crucifix were within; and here sleeps

uses of the public; so, entering, the first thing I did was to stumble over
an ash-box in the porch.  Ha!  thought I, ha, as the flying particles almost
     Call me Ishmael.  Some years ago--never mind how
Etymology  (Supplied by a late consumptive usher to a grammar school.)
of The Trap.  However, I picked myself up and hearing a loud voice within,
pushed on and opened a second, interior door.  It seemed the great Black
Any subsequent copies of this data must include this notice  
rows to peer; and beyond, a black Angel of Doom was beating a book in a
pulpit.  It was a negro church; and the preacher's text was about the

there.  Ha, Ishmael, muttered I, backing out, Wretched entertainment at the
sign of The Trap!  Moving on, I at last came to a dim sort of light not far


representing a tall straight jet of misty spray, and these words underneath
-- The Spouter-Inn: --Peter Coffin.  Coffin? --Spouter? --Rather ominous in that
.. <p 2 >
they say, and I suppose this Peter here is an emigrant from there.  As the
light looked so dim, and the place, for the time, looked

might have been carted here from the ruins of some burnt district, and as the
quiet enough, and the dilapidated little wooden house itself looked as if it
swinging sign had a poverty-stricken sort of creak to it, I thought that here
was the very spot for cheap lodgings, and the best of pea coffee.  It was a

wind Euroclydon kept up a worse howling than ever it did about poor Paul's
black-letter, thou reasonest well.  Yes, these eyes are windows, and this
body of mine is the house.  What a pity they didn't stop up the chinks and the
glazier.  True enough, thought I, as this passage occurred to my mind --old
one of those tall mountaineers from the Alleganian Ridge in Virginia.  When
it seems, for some reason a huge favorite with them, they raised a cry of
sea.  In a few minutes, however, he was missed by his shipmates, and being,
pursuit of him.  It was now about nine o'clock, and the room seeming almost
supernaturally quiet after these orgies, I began to congratulate myself upon
.. <p 15 >
give him much joy.  His voice at once announced
rather not sleep with your own brother.  I don't know how it is, but people
like to be private when they are sleeping.  And when it comes to sleeping with
that he was a Southerner, and from his fine stature, I thought he must be
brown and burnt, making his white teeth dazzling by the contrast; while in
coffer-dam.  I have seldom seen such brawn in a man.  His face was deeply
filled with dusty rarities gathered from this wide world's remotest nooks.
at once; and since the sea-gods had ordained that he should soon become my
the deep shadows of his eyes floated some reminiscences that did not seem to
own skin.  The more I pondered over this harpooneer, the more I abominated
the revelry of his companions had mounted to its height, this man slipped
he refrained from making as much noise as the rest.  This man interested me
the thought of sleeping with him.  It was fair to presume that being a
low ponderous beams above, and such old wrinkled planks beneath, that you
that one of them held somewhat aloof, and though he seemed desirous not to
tell from what vile hole he had been coming?  Landlord!  I've changed my mind
sea, and they began capering about most obstreperously.  I observed, however,
heads, as it generally does even with the arrantest topers newly landed from
on the weather side of an ice-island.  The liquor soon mounted into their
tidiest, certainly none of the finest.  I began to twitch all over.  Besides,
mind of how long standing, or whether caught off the coast of Labrador, or
he swore was a sovereign cure for all colds and catarrhs whatsoever, never
entered.  No wonder, then, that they made a straight wake for the whale's
They had just landed from their boat, and this was the first house they
grinning like an ape.  The shavings flew right and left; till at last the
plane-iron came bump against an indestructible knot.  The landlord was near
spraining his wrist, and I told him for heaven's sake to quit -- the bed was
soft enough to suit me, and I did not know how all the planing in the world
beards stiff with icicles, they seemed an eruption of bears from Labrador.
heads muffled in woollen comforters, all bedarned and ragged, and their
room, he went about his business, and left me in a brown study.  I now took
the measure of the bench, and found that it was a foot too short; but that
mariners enough.  Enveloped in their shaggy watch coats, and with their
heard in the entry; the door was flung open, and in rolled a wild set of
wait a bit, Skrimshander; I've
else to do with myself, I resolved to spend the rest of the evening as a
Supper over, the company went back to the bar-room, when, knowing not what
.. <p 14 >
gone a death-harvesting with such a hacking, horrifying implement.  Mixed with
the window, and both together formed a series of small whirlwinds in the
immediate vicinity of the spot where I had thought to spend the night.  The
before I did.
so turned out that we should sleep together, he must undress and get into bed
most violent knockings?  it seemed no bad idea; but upon second thoughts I
dark complexioned harpooneer.  At any rate, I made up my mind that if it
popped out of the room, the harpooneer might be standing in the entry, all
ready to knock me down!  Still, looking around me again, and seeing no possible
don't--he eats nothing but steaks, and likes 'em rare.  The devil he does,
a most direful manner.  My boy, said the landlord, you'll have the
One young fellow in a green box coat, addressed himself to these dumplings in
dropping in before long.  I'll have a good look at him then, and perhaps we
may become jolly good bedfellows after all --there's no telling.
Iceland --no fire at all  --the landlord said he couldn't afford it.  Nothing
five of us were summoned to our meal in an adjoining room.  It was cold as
in a great hurricane; the half-foundered ship weltering there with its three
full sail, but he didn't make much headway, I thought.  At last some four or
twelve o'clock.  The landlord chuckled again with his lean chuckle, and
seemed to be mightily tickled at something beyond my comprehension.  No, he
away at the space between his legs.  he was trying his hand at a ship under
over like a bench on the Battery.  At one end a ruminating tar was still
picture's midst.  That once found out, and all the rest were plain.  But stop;
Supper 'll be ready directly.  I sat down on an old wooden settle, carved all
blanket.  I thought so.  All right; take a seat.  Supper? --you want supper?
decidedly objectionable, why rather than wander further about a strange town
landlord) really had no other place for me, and the harpooneer was not
this blessed Saturday night, or rather Sunday morning, in peddling his head
.. <p 13 >
a whalin', so you'd better get used to that sort of thing.
bed unoccupied.  But avast, he added, tapping his forehead, you haint no
accommodated with a room, received for answer that his house was full --not a
was no yoking them.  I then placed the first bench lengthwise along the only
that yarn to me --I'm not green.  May be not, taking out a stick and
whittling a toothpick, but I rayther guess you'll be done brown if that ere
and so on to the full glass --the Cape Horn measure, which you may gulp down
Fill to this mark, and your charge is but a penny; to this a penny more;
limber, portentous, black mass of something hovering in the
mean?  Sartain, and that's the very reason he can't sell it, I guess.
meridians rudely pecked into the glass, surround these footpads' goblets.
glasses deceitfully tapered downwards to a cheating bottom.  Parallel
little withered old man, who, for their money, dearly sells the sailors
that too without delay.  I come to your house and want a bed; you tell me you
another cursed Jonah (by which name indeed they called him), bustles a
decanters, bottles, flasks; and in those jaws of swift destruction, like
persist in telling me the most mystifying and exasperating stories, tending
to beget in me an uncomfortable feeling towards the man whom
almost drive beneath it.  within are shabby shelves, ranged round with old
you design for my bedfellow --a sort of connexion, landlord, which is an
intimate and confidential one in the highest degree.  I now demand of you to
Projecting from the further angle of the room stands a dark-looking den --the
first you almost thought some ambitious young artist, in the time of the New
you what it is, landlord, said I, quite calmly, you'd better stop spinning
true I take to be good evidence that this harpooneer is stark mad, and I've
it was getting late, and my decent harpooneer ought to be home and going
Crossing this dusky entry, and on through yon low-arched way --cut through
breath, that's a purty long sarmon for a chap that rips a little now and
defaced, that in the unequal cross-lights by which you viewed it, it was
liable to a criminal prosecution.  Wall, said the landlord, fetching a long
has just arrived from the south seas, where he bought up a lot of 'balmed New
.. <p 12 >
The original iron entered
then.  But be easy, be easy, this here harpooneer I have been tellin' you of
to churches.  He wanted to, last Sunday, but I stopped him just as he was
and run away with by a whale, years afterward slain off the Cape of Blanco.
fifty years ago did Nathan Swain kill fifteen whales between a sunrise and a
mystery, and showed that the landlord, after all, had had no idea of fooling
me --but at the same time what could I think of a harpooneer who stayed out a
Some were storied weapons.  With this once long lance, now wildly elbowed,
at all, especially as another current from the rickety door met the one from
that harpooneer is a dangerous man.  He pays reg'lar, was the rejoinder.
as you gazed, and wondered what monstrous cannibal and savage could ever have
glittering teeth resembling ivory saws; others were tufted with knots of
dismantled masts alone visible; and an exasperated whale, purposing to spring
going to bed, yet no sign of my harpooneer.  Landlord!  said I, what sort of
does it not bear a faint resemblance to a gigantic fish?  even the great
peddling, you see, and I don't see what on airth keeps him so late, unless,
painting meant.  Ever and anon a bright, but, alas, deceptive idea would dart
involuntarily took an oath with yourself to find out what that marvellous
centre of the picture over three blue, dim, perpendicular lines floating in a
that, Sal said it wouldn't do.  Come along here, I'll give ye a glim in a
jiffy; and so saying he lighted a candle and held it towards me, offering to
.. <p 11 >
landlord's.  It's broke a'ready, said he.  Broke, said I -- broke, do you
come to anchor somewhere --come along then; do come; won't ye come?  I
altogether unwarranted.  But what most puzzled and confounded you was a long,
ushered into a small room, cold as a clam, and furnished, sure enough, with a
prodigious bed, almost big enough indeed for any four harpooneers to sleep
come to the conclusion that such an idea, however wild, might not be
England hags, had endeavored to delineate chaos bewitched.  But by dint of
would not do to be sellin' human heads about the streets when folks is goin'
the bed, but he had disappeared.  Folding back the counterpane, I stooped
else; for sailors no more sleep two in a bed at sea, than bachelor Kings do
tolerably well.  I then glanced round the room; and besides the bedstead and
down lengthwise along the line of the equator; yea, ye
side hung a very large oil-painting so thoroughly besmoked, and every way
striking a whale.  Of things not properly belonging to the room, there was a
     Entering that gable-ended Spouter-Inn,

not Lazarus rather be in Sumatra than here?  Would he not far rather lay him
shelf over the fire-place, and a tall harpoon standing at the head of the
.. < chapter iii 14  THE SPOUTER-INN >
.. <p 10 >
some satisfactory conclusion concerning it.  I can compare it to nothing but a
oriental summer climes of everlasting conservatories; give me the privilege
going a-whaling, and there is plenty of that yet to come.  Let us scrape the
drinks the tepid tears of orphans.  But no more of this blubbering now, we are
ponchos.  But could it be possible that any sober harpooneer would get into
Dives, this is more wonderful than that an iceberg should be moored to one of
gods!  go down to the fiery pit itself, in order to keep out this frost?  Now,
uncommonly shaggy and thick, and I thought a little damp, as though this
.. <p 10 >
a bit of glass stuck against the wall, and I never saw such a sight in my
life.  I tore myself out of it in such a hurry that I gave myself a kink in
off his tatters with his shiverings, he might plug up both ears with rags,
the neck.  I sat down on the side of the bed, and commenced thinking about
this head-peddling harpooneer, and his door mat.  After thinking some time on
land trunk.  Likewise, there was a parcel of outlandish bone fish hooks on the
large door mat, ornamented at the edges with little tinkling tags something
more in my shirt sleeves.  But beginning to feel very cold now, half undressed
night; how Orion glitters; what northern lights!  Let them talk of their
and put a corn-cob into his mouth, and yet that would not keep out the
tumbled into bed, and commended myself to the care of heaven.  Whether that
you will be so good as to unsay that story about selling his head, which if
is on, and the chips were carted off a million years ago.  Poor Lazarus
last I slid off into a light doze, and had pretty nearly made a good offing
towards the land of Nod, when I heard a heavy footfall in the passage, and
your own hammock, and cover yourself with your own blanket, and sleep in your
yourself comfortable now, and good night to ye.  I turned round from eyeing
however, he turned round --when, good heavens!  what a sight!  Such a face!  It
as he was, he still hugged me tightly, as though naught but death should part
in the room.  I was all eagerness to see his face, but he kept it averted for
some time while employed in unlacing the bag's mouth.  This accomplished,
in fixed reality, and then I lay only alive to the comical predicament.  For
me.  But at length all the past night's events soberly recurred, one by one,
for days and weeks and months afterwards I lost myself in confounding attempts
from me; but waking in the morning, I shudderingly remembered it all, and
savage's side, as if it were a hatchet-faced baby.  A pretty pickle, truly,
though I tried to move his arm --unlock his bridegroom clasp --yet, sleeping
there, frozen with the most awful fears, not daring to drag away my hand;
closely seated by my bedside.  For what seemed ages piled on ages, I lay
thought I; abed here in a strange house in the broad day, with a cannibal and
darkness.  Instantly I felt a shock running through all my frame; nothing was
dreams --I opened my eyes, and the before sun-lit room was now wrapped in outer
shook himself all over like a Newfoundland dog just from the water, and sat
unbecomingness of his hugging a fellow male in that matrimonial sort of style,
from the greatest subsequent misfortunes.  At last I must have fallen into a
broad awake, feeling a great deal worse than I have ever done since, even
beseeching her as a particular favor to give me a good slippering for my
feet, sought out my stepmother, and suddenly threw myself at her feet,
seemed made up touching the character of his bedfellow, and he became, as it
up in bed, stiff as a pike-staff, looking at me, and rubbing his eyes as if
signs and sounds gave me to understand that, if it pleased me, he would
bed!  the small of my back ached to think of it.  And it was so light too;
.. <p 26 >
us twain.  I now strove to rouse him --
sense of delicacy, say what you will; it is marvellous how essentially
for a resurrection.  Sixteen hours in
treated me with so much civility and consideration, while I was guilty of
great rudeness; staring at him from the bed, and watching all his toilette
dismally calculating that sixteen entire hours must elapse before I could hope
felt dreadfully.  But there was no help for it, so up stairs I went to my
very civilized overture; but, the truth is, these savages have an innate
afternoon of the 21st June, the longest day in the year in our hemisphere.  I
chimney and packed me off to bed, though it was only two o'clock in the
tell, but his next movement was to crush himself --boots in hand, and hat on
and my stepmother who, somehow or other, was all the time whipping me, or
crawl up the chimney, as i had seen a little sweep do a few days previous;
gaspings and strainings, I inferred he was hard at work booting himself;
though by no law of propriety that I ever heard of, is any man required to be
private when putting on his boots.  But Queequeg, do you see, was a creature
I well remember a somewhat similar circumstance that befell me; whether it
My sensations were strange.  Let me try to explain them.  When I was a child,
sooty, so that I thought this fire-place made a very appropriate little shrine
nothing but a small scalp-knot twisted up on his forehead.  His bald purplish
troubled himself with boots at all; but then, if he had not been still a
savage, he never would have dreamt of getting under the bed to put them on.
from the quilt, they so blended their hues together; and it was only by the
partly lying on it as the arm did when I first awoke, I could hardly tell it
figure, no two parts of which were of one precise shade --owing I suppose to
arm of his tattooed all over with an interminable Cretan labyrinth of a
     Upon waking next morning about daylight,

view into the room, and observing more and more the indecorous figure that
manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner.  But seeing that it
.. < chapter iv 2  THE COUNTERPANE >
particularly to get into his pantaloons as soon as possible.  He complied,
and then proceeded to wash himself.  At that time in the morning any
.. <p 25 >
contented himself with restricting his ablutions to his chest, arms, and
hands.  He then donned his waistcoat, and taking up a piece of hard soap on
the wash-stand centre-table, dipped it into water and commenced lathering his
This being told to Queequeg, he at once complied, and again politely motioned
a man smoking in bed with me.  It's dangerous.  Besides, I aint insured.
unsheathes the head, whets it a little on his boot, and striding up to the
dreadnaught, which he had previously hung on a chair, he fumbled in the
sober cannibal than a drunken Christian.  Landlord, said I, tell him to
comely looking cannibal.  What's all this fuss I have been making about,
were well worth unusual regarding.  He commenced dressing at top by donning his
must indeed be a heathen.  Going to his heavy grego, or wrapall, or
looking at him a moment.  For all his tattooings he was on the whole a clean,
the rest of his toilet was soon achieved, and he proudly marched out of the
room, wrapped up in his great pilot monkey jacket, and sporting his harpoon
man sleepe you --you sabbee?  Me sabbee plenty --grunted Queequeg, puffing
again and go to sleep.  Queequeg, look here --you sabbee me, I sabbee you --this

     I quickly followed suit, and descending into
came into the room light in hand, and leaping from the bed I ran up to him.
it with a sticking-plaster shirt.  Still more, his very legs were marked, as
malice towards him, though he had been skylarking with me not a little in the
matter of my bedfellow.  However, a good laugh is a mighty good thing, and
rather too scarce a good thing; the more's the pity.  So, if any one man, in
my linen would get on fire.  But thank heaven, at that moment the landlord
.. <p 24 >
that way.  And the man that has anything bountifully laughable about him, be
sure there is more in that man than you perhaps think for.  The bar-room was
Watch!  Coffin!  Angels!  save me!  Speak-e!  tell-ee me who-ee be, or dam-me,
the bar-room accosted the grinning landlord very pleasantly.  I cherished no
chief mates, and second mates, and third mates, and sea carpenters, and sea
dark.  Landlord, for God's sake, Peter Coffin!  shouted I.  Landlord!
from him against the wall, and then conjured him, whoever or whatever he might
monkey jackets for morning gowns.  You could pretty plainly tell how long each
one had been ashore.  This young fellow's healthy cheek is like a sun-toasted
pear in hue, and would seem to smell almost as musky; he cannot have been
three days landed from his Indian voyage.  That man next him looks a few
shades lighter; you might say a touch of satin wood is in him.  In the
he began feeling me.  Stammering out something, I knew not what, I rolled away
were, reconciled to the fact; he jumped out upon the floor, and by certain
clouds of tobacco smoke.  The next moment the light was extinguished, and
tomahawk from the table, he examined the head of it for an instant, and then
interval I spent in deliberating what to say, was a fatal one.  Taking up his
exhibiting strong symptoms of concluding his business operations, and jumping
queer proceedings increased my uncomfortableness, and seeing him now
as carelessly as if he were a sportsman bagging a dead woodcock.  All these
else singing some pagan psalmody or other, during which his face twitched
ease in manner, quite self-possessed in company.  Not always, though:
guttural noises from the devotee, who seemed to be praying in a sing-song or
and ashes a little, he made a polite offer of it to the little negro.  But the
of this head-peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension.
taking a long solitary walk on an empty stomach, in the negro heart of
.. <p 23 >
into a sacrificial blaze.  Presently, after many hasty snatches into the
Still, for the most part, that sort of thing is to be had anywhere.  These
reflections just here are occasioned by the circumstance that after we were
all seated at the table, and I was preparing to hear some good stories about
whaling; to my no small surprise, nearly every man maintained a profound
silence.  And not only that, but they looked embarrassed.  Yes, here were a
follow.  First he takes about a double handful of shavings out of his grego
manner.  his education was not yet completed.  He was an undergraduate.  If he
whom I had not as yet had a good look at.  They were nearly all whalemen;
the same calling, all of kindred tastes --looking round as sheepishly at
proved to be.  For now the savage goes up to the empty fireplace, and removing
I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden idol, which indeed it
warrior whalemen!  But as for Queequeg --why, Queequeg sat there among them --at
the head of the table, too, it so chanced; as cool as an icicle.  To be sure
Queequeg made, staving about with little else but his hat and boots on; I
Remembering the embalmed head, at first I almost thought that this black
using it there without ceremony; reaching over the table with it, to the
imminent jeopardy of many heads, and grappling the beefsteaks towards him.
bit of mirror against the wall, begins a vigorous scraping, or rather
exceedingly sharp the long straight edges are always kept.
one knows that in most people's estimation, to do anything coolly is to do it
genteelly.  We will not speak of all Queequeg's peculiarities here; how he
country.  I quaked to think of it.  A peddler of heads too --perhaps the heads
if a parcel of dark green frogs were running up the trunks of young palms.  It
the rest into the public room, lighted his tomahawk-pipe, and was sitting
there quietly digesting and smoking with his inseparable hat on, when I
effects upon the skin.  Now, while all these ideas were passing through me
chest and arms.  As I live, these covered parts of him were checkered with
Meanwhile, he continued the business of undressing, and at last showed his
.. <p 22 >
inexplicable in him.
glimpse of so outlandish an individual as Queequeg circulating among the
polite society of a civilized town, that astonishment soon departed upon
taking my first daylight stroll through the streets of New Bedford.  In
thoroughfares nigh the docks, any considerable seaport will frequently offer
to view the queerest looking nondescripts from foreign parts.  Even in
it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at the dead of
Ignorance is the parent of fear, and being completely nonplussed and
similar adventure.  And what is it, thought I, after all!  It's only his
natives.  But New Bedford beats all Water street and Wapping.  In these
I bolted a dinner.  Even as it was, I thought something of slipping out of the
harpooneer, in the course of his distant voyages, must have met with a
withal; he doubtless has tarried whole weeks ashore.  But who could show a
He now took off his hat --a new beaver hat --when I came nigh singing out with
New Zealand head --a ghastly thing enough --and crammed it down into the bag.
unheeded reel about the streets, you will see other sights still more
falling among the cannibals, had been tattooed by them.  I concluded that this
Placing these on the old chest in the middle of the room, he then took the
difficulty having opened his bag, he commenced fumbling in it, and presently
men, all athirst for gain and glory in the fishery.  They are mostly young,
occurred to me.  I remembered a story of a white man --a whaleman too--who,
the axe and snatch the whale-lance.  Many are as green as the Green Mountains
whence they came.  In some things you would think them but a few hours old.
.. <p 21 >
another with a sou'-wester and a bombazine cloak.  No town-bred dandy will
compare with a country-bred one -- I mean a downright bumpkin dandy --a fellow
in the South Seas; and perhaps the sun there produced these extraordinary
tanning his hands.  Now when a country dandy like this takes it into his head
that, in the dog-days, will mow his two acres in buckskin gloves for fear of
to make a distinguished reputation, and joins the great whale-fishery, you
completely independent of the squares of tattooing.  To be sure, it might be
mere crossing of Siberia in a sledge drawn by dogs as Ledyard did, or the
to his canvas trowsers.  Ah, poor Hay-Seed!  how bitterly will burst those
straps in the first howling gale, when thou art driven, straps, buttons, and
had not been a small degree civilized, he very probably would not have
curious, certainly more comical.
of stalwart frames; fellows who have felled forests, and now seek to drop
tract of land would this day perhaps have been in as howling condition as the
when I came to know of what fine steel the head of a harpoon is made, and how
bedfellow; he's been in a fight, got dreadfully cut, and here he is, just
blackish looking squares.  Yes, it's just as I thought, he's a terrible
nor in the spring-time do they pave them with fresh eggs.  Yet, in spite of
this, nowhere in all America will you find more patrician-like houses; parks
without winking; and yet, here they sat at a social breakfast table --all of
yet carry on their bones unholy flesh.  It makes a stranger stare.  But,
air, the beautiful and bountiful horse-chestnuts, candelabra-wise, proffer
bright terraces of flowers upon the barren refuse rocks thrown aside at
full of fine maples --long avenues of green and gold.  And in August, high in
again, and every eye on the preacher.  He paused a little; then kneeling in
benches, and a still slighter shuffling of women's shoes, and all was quiet
the bottom of the sea.  This ended, in prolonged solemn tones, like the
continual tolling of a bell in a ship that is foundering at sea in a fog --in
Midships!  midships!  There was a low rumbling of heavy sea-boots among the
the pulpit's bows, folded his large brown hands across his chest, uplifted his
     Father Mapple rose, and in a mild voice of

the opening maw of hell, With endless pains and sorrows there; Which none but
therefore three cheers for Nantucket; and come a stove boat and stove body
.. < chapter ix 23  THE SERMON >
God of breezes fair or foul is first invoked for favorable winds.  Yes, the
relief, As on a radiant dolphin borne; Awful, yet bright, as lightning shone
The face of my Deliverer God.  My song for ever shall record That terrible,
that joyful hour; I give the glory to my God, His all the mercy and the
power.  Nearly all joined in singing this hymn, which swelled high above the
ever this earth's foremost part; all the rest comes in its rear; the pulpit
the leaves of the Bible, and at last, folding his hand down upon the proper
page, said: Beloved shipmates, clinch the last verse of the first chapter of
fiddle-headed beak.  What could be more full of meaning? --for the pulpit is
they that feel can tell-- Oh, I was plunging to despair.  In black distress,
strands in the mighty cable of the Scriptures.  Yet what depths of the soul
this book, containing only four chapters --four yarns --is one of the smallest
rolling off --serenest azure is at hand.  Nor was the pulpit itself without a
bear a hardy helm; for lo!  the sun is breaking through; the clouds are
.. <p 39 >
boisterously grand!  We feel the floods surging over us; we sound with him to
the kelpy bottom of the waters; sea-weed and all the slime of the sea is
breakers.  But high above the
beating against a terrible storm off a lee coast of black rocks and snowy
Between the marble cenotaphs on either hand of the pulpit, the wall which
lesson to us all, because it is a story of the sin, hard-heartedness,
suddenly awakened fears, the swift punishment, repentance, prayers, and
feature of the place, borrowed from the chaplain's former sea-farings.
the sin of this son of Amittai was in his wilful disobedience of the command
prefix so significant and infidel a word, and yet do not thus entitle him, if
and wine of the word, to the faithful man of God, this pulpit, I see, is a
to do --remember that --and hence, he oftener commands us than endeavors to
persuade.  And if we obey God, we must disobey ourselves; and it is in this
all outward worldly ties and connexions?  Yes, for replenished with the meat
this sin of disobedience in him, Jonah still further flouts at God, by
seeking to flee from Him.  He thinks that a ship made by men, will carry him
No, thought I, there must be some sober reason for this thing; furthermore,
could not suspect him of courting notoriety by any mere tricks of the stage.
Mapple enjoyed such a wide reputation for sincerity and sanctity, that I
see Father Mapple after gaining the height, slowly turn round, and stooping
is that a universal proverb says of them, that
the opinion of learned men.  And where is Cadiz, shipmates?  Cadiz is in
joints in the present instance seemed unnecessary.  For I was not prepared to
those ancient days, when the Atlantic was an almost unknown sea.  Because
case with swinging ones, were of cloth-covered rope, only the rounds were of
his vessel.  the perpendicular parts of this side ladder, as is usually the
to the westward from that, just outside the Straits of Gibraltar.  See ye not
then, shipmates, that Jonah sought to flee world-wide from God?  Miserable
dexterity, hand over hand, mounted the steps as if ascending the main-top of
bad taste.  Halting for an instant at the foot of the ladder, and with both
contrivance, considering what manner of chapel it was, seemed by no means in
look, that had there been policemen in
a ship from a boat at sea.  The wife of a whaling captain had provided the
those days, jonah, on the mere suspicion of something wrong, had been arrested
ere he touched a deck.  How plainly he's a fugitive!  no baggage, not a
.. <p 38 >
their adieux.  At last, after much dodging search, he finds the Tarshish ship
receiving the last items of her cargo; and as he steps on board to see its
a perpendicular side ladder, like those used in mounting
the goods, to mark the stranger's evil eye.  Jonah sees this; but in vain he
towards the concluding stanzas, burst forth with a pealing exultation and joy
hint of Father Mapple, and finished the pulpit without a stairs, substituting
already small area of the chapel, the architect, it seemed, had acted upon the
tablets sympathetically caused the old wounds to bleed afresh.  Oh!  ye whose
arrayed in a decent suit, he quietly approached the pulpit.  Like most old
the missing murderers from Sodom."  Another runs to read the bill that's stuck
one removed, and hung up in a little space in an adjacent corner; when,
I observed that he carried no umbrella, and certainly had not come in his
him, imputable to that adventurous maritime life he had led.  When he entered
trace of the same sea-taste that had achieved the ladder and the picture.  Its
their hands upon him.  Frighted Jonah trembles, and summoning all his
certain mild gleams of a newly developing bloom --the spring verdure peeping
flowering youth, for among all the fissures of his wrinkles, there shone
the best of it; and when the sailors find him not to be the man that is
among whom he was a very great favorite.  He had been a sailor and a
there?" cries the Captain at his busy desk, hurriedly making out his papers
in his countenance.  This savage was the only person present who seemed to
door flew back upon admitting him, a quick regardful eyeing of him by all
     I had not been seated very long ere a man
passage in this ship to Tarshish; how soon sail ye, sir?"  Thus far the busy
from my ice-glazed hat and jacket, I seated myself near the door, and

glance.  "We sail with the next coming tide," at last he slowly answered,
still intently eyeing him.  "No sooner, sir?" --"Soon enough for any honest man
that goes a passenger."  Ha!  Jonah, that's another stab.  But he swiftly calls
.. < chapter viii 2  THE PULPIT >
.. <p 37 >
.. <p 43 >
here placed by their surviving Shipmates.
money, how much is that, --I'll pay now."  For it is particularly written,
paid the fare thereof" ere the craft did sail.  And taken with the context,
shipmates, as if it were a thing not to be overlooked in this history,"that he
closed eyes,
being.  In fact take my body who will, take it I say, it is not me.  And
Life and Death.  Methinks that what they call my shadow here on earth is my
Eternity.  But what then?  Methinks we have hugely mistaken this matter of
frontiers.  So Jonah's Captain prepares to test the length of Jonah's purse,
ere he judge him openly.  He charges him thrice the usual sum; and it's
Delightful inducements to embark, fine chance for promotion, it seems -- aye,
same time resolves to help a flight that paves its rear with gold.  Yet when
Jonah fairly takes out his purse, prudent suspicions still molest the Captain.
Yes, Ishmael, the same fate may be thine.  But somehow I grew merry again.
darkened, doleful day read the fate of the whalemen who had gone before me,
bliss; why all the living so strive to hush all the dead; wherefore but the
comforted for those who we nevertheless maintain are dwelling in unspeakable
of God --never mind now what that command was, or how conveyed --which he found
the Captain, "there's thy room."  Jonah enters, and would lock the door,
how it is that to his name who yesterday departed for the other world, we
.. <p 36 >
chaplain had not yet arrived; and there these silent islands of men and women
dusty as he is, Jonah throws himself into his berth, and finds the little
state-room ceiling almost resting on his forehead.  The air is close, and
jonah gasps.  then, in that contracted hole, sunk, too, beneath the ship's
this is full of meaning.  Now Jonah's Captain, shipmates, was one whose
In what census of living creatures, the dead of mankind are included; why it
grave.  As well might those tablets stand in the cave of Elephanta as here.
its axis against the side, a swinging lamp slightly oscillates in Jonah's
room; and the ship, heeling over towards the wharf with the weight of the
last bales received, the lamp, flame and all, though in slight motion, still
--here, here lies my beloved; ye know not the desolation that broods in bosoms
dead lie buried beneath the green grass; who standing among flowers can say
robbed a widow;" or,"Joe, do you mark him; he's a bigamist;" or,"Harry lad,
fishery, and so plainly did several women present wear the countenance if not
congregation, I knew not; but so many are the unrecorded accidents in the
fugitive finds no refuge for his restless glance.  But that contradiction in
the lamp more and
notice my entrance; because he was the only one who could not read, and,
sure that I did not.  Returning from my first morning stroll, I again sallied
captain had not looked up to jonah, though the man now stands before him;
Indian Ocean or Pacific, who fail to make a Sunday visit to the spot.  I am
drunken revelry hies to his bed, still reeling, but with conscience yet
pricking him, as the plungings of the Roman race-horse but so much the more
strike his steel tags into him; as one who in that miserable plight still
turns and turns in giddy anguish, praying God for annihilation until the fit
.  This Marble Is
Memory By his Sister.  Sacred To the Memory of Robert Long, Willis Ellery,
and there's naught to staunch it; so, after sore wrestlings in his berth,
.  This Tablet Is erected to his
now the time of tide has come; the ship casts off her cables; and from the
deserted wharf the uncheered ship for Tarshish, all careening, glides to sea.
Desolation, off Patagonia, November 1st,
Talbot, Who, at the age of eighteen, was lost overboard, Near the Isle of
was jonah.  but the sea rebels; he will not bear the wicked burden.  A
dreadful storm comes on, the ship is like to break.  But now when the
following, but I do not pretend to quote: -- Sacred To the Memory of John
accounts Tarshish could have been no other city than the modern Cadiz.  That's
from the other, as if each silent grief were insular and incommunicable.  The
this raging tumult, Jonah sleeps his hideous sleep.  He sees no black sky and
raging sea, feels not the reeling timbers, and little hears he or heeds he
Entering, I found a small scattered congregation of sailors, and sailors'
the seas after him.  Aye, shipmates, Jonah was gone down into the sides of
the ship --a berth in the cabin as I have taken it, and was fast asleep.  But
.. <p 34 >
cry, Jonah staggers to his feet, and stumbling to the deck, grasps a shroud,
for the Customs --"who's there?"  Oh!  how that harmless question mangles Jonah!
to look out upon the sea.  But at that moment he is sprung upon by a panther
as though they were drawing nigh the odorous Moluccas instead of the
Whaleman's Chapel, and few are the moody fishermen, shortly bound for the
nigh to drowning while yet afloat.  And ever, as the white moon shows
     In this same New Bedford there stands a

Jonah sees the rearing bowsprit pointing high upward, but soon beat downward
again towards the tormented deep.  Terrors upon terrors run shouting through
his soul.  In all his cringing attitudes, the God-fugitive is now too plainly
known.  The sailors mark him; more and more certain grow their suspicions of
.. < chapter vii 26  THE CHAPEL >
Puritanic sands.
furiously they mob him with their questions.  "What is thine occupation?
tempest was upon them.  The lot is Jonah's; that discovered, then how
the behavior of poor Jonah.  The eager mariners but ask him who he is, and
water-line, Jonah feels the heralding presentiment of that stifling hour, when
whence comest thou?  thy country?  what people?" but mark now, my shipmates,
tries to look all ease and confidence; in vain essays his wretched smile.
girls breathe such musk, their sailor sweethearts smell them miles off shore,
creation's final day.  And the women of New Bedford, they bloom like their own
fear the Lord God then!  Straightway, he now goes on to make a full
made the sea and the dry land!"  Fear him, O Jonah?  Aye, well mightest thou
where from; whereas, they not only receive an answer to those questions, but
while all his sympathetic shipmates now crowd round Jonah, prepared to lay
     his sake this great tempest was upon them; they mercifully turn from him,
and seek by other means to save the ship.  But all in vain; the indignant
and smoke, we went to our room together.  He made me a present of his
as an anchor and dropped into the sea; when instantly an oily calmness floats
embalmed head; took out his enormous tobacco wallet, and groping under the
savage those old rules would not apply.  After supper, and another social chat
table, and mechanically dividing them into two equal portions, pushed one of
silenced me by pouring them into my trowsers' pockets.  I let them stay.  He
them towards me, and said it was mine.  I was going to remonstrate; but he
seemed far too premature, a thing to be much distrusted; but in this simple
need should be.  In a countryman, this sudden flame of friendship would have
country's phrase, that we were bosom friends; he would gladly die for me, if
He seemed to take to me quite as naturally and unbiddenly as I to him; and
then went about his evening prayers, took out his idol, and removed the
pictures that were in it.  Thus I soon engaged his interest; and from that we
this wild idolator in worshipping his piece of wood?  But what is worship?
thought I. Do you suppose now, Ishmael, that the magnanimous God of heaven
bedfellows.  I told him yes; whereat I thought he looked pleased, perhaps a
night's hospitalities, he made out to ask me whether we were again to be
tobacco, drew out some thirty dollars in silver; then spreading them on the
.. <p 51 >
but hollow courtesy.  I drew my bench near him, and made some friendly signs
went to jabbering the best we could about the various outer sights to be seen
will of God -- that is worship.  And what is the will of God? --to do to my
me.  I'll try a pagan friend, thought I, since Christian kindness has proved
to feel myself mysteriously drawn towards him.  And those same things that
thrice; kissed his nose; and that done, we undressed and went to bed, at
and bland deceits.  Wild he was; a very sight of sights to see; yet I began
without some little chat.  How it is I know not; but there is no place like a
commodores of this earth, ever stands forth his own inexorable self.  Delight
more my splintered heart and maddened hand were turned against the wolfish
often lie and chat over old times till nearly morning.  Thus, then, in our
I began to be sensible of strange feelings.  I felt a melting in me.  No
evening shades and phantoms gathering round the casements, and peering in
intensity has warmed the air, it then only glows to be looked at; the
man gives himself out for a philosopher, I conclude that, like the dyspeptic
conscious of so living or so striving.  So soon as I hear that such or such a
napping at short intervals, and Queequeg now and then affectionately throwing
his brown tattooed legs over mine, and then drawing them back; so entirely
sociable and free and easy were we; when, at last, by reason of our
companionship; always equal to himself.  Surely this was a touch of fine
Horn, that is --which was the only way he could get there --thrown among people
future.  Yes, we became very wakeful; so much so that our recumbent
it.  Here was a man some twenty thousand miles from home, by the way of Cape
position began to grow wearisome, and by little and little we found ourselves
sitting up; the clothes well tucked around us, leaning against the
seamen in the inn.  He made no advances whatever; appeared to have no desire
self-collectedness of simplicity seems a Socratic wisdom.  I had noticed also
exactly how to take them.  At first they are overawing; their calm
.. <p 50 >
say, because truly to enjoy bodily warmth, some small part of you must be
face of Falsehood!  That was it!  This, shipmates, this is that other lesson;
indifference of his
over comfortable, and have been so a long time, then you cannot be said to
I had found thrown over me upon waking in the morning, I thought this
the casement, he never heeded my presence, never troubled himself with so
in the general consciousness you feel most delightfully and unmistakably warm.
scanning him, half-pretending meanwhile to be looking out at the storm from
regularly graded retreating slope from above the brows, which were likewise
which is one of the luxurious discomforts of the rich.  For the height of
this sort of deliciousness is to have nothing but the blanket between you and
worship.  consequently, i must then unite with him in his; ergo, I must turn
warm spark in the heart of an arctic crystal.  We had been sitting in this
Washington's head, as seen in the popular busts of him.  It had the same long
an excellent one.  It may seem ridiculous, but it reminded me of General
asleep or awake, I have a way of always keeping my eyes shut, in order the
hell" --when the whale grounded upon the ocean's utmost bones, even then, God
feel his own identity aright except his eyes be closed; as if darkness were
indeed the proper element of our essences, though light be more congenial to
more to concentrate the snugness of being in bed.  Because no man can ever
a man who had never cringed and never had had a creditor.  Whether it was,
Pagan, which even his uncouthness could not altogether maim.  He looked like
our clayey part.  Upon opening my eyes then, and coming out of my own pleasant
revulsion.  Nor did I at all object to the hint from Queequeg that perhaps it
unilluminated twelve-o'clock-at-night, I experienced a disagreeable
devils.  And besides all this, there was a certain lofty bearing about the
black and bold, there seemed tokens of a spirit that would dare a thousand
You cannot hide the soul.  Through all his unearthly tattooings, I thought I
the bed the night before, yet see how elastic our stiff prejudices grow when
love once comes to bend them.  For now I liked nothing better than to have
multitude of pages was excited.  With much interest I sat watching him.  Savage
serene household joy then.  I no more felt unduly concerned for the landlord's
policy of insurance.  I was only alive to the condensed confidential
a large number of fifties being found together, that his astonishment at the
shaggy jackets drawn about our shoulders, we now passed the Tomahawk from one
to the other, till slowly there grew over us a blue hanging tester of smoke,
giving utterance to a long-drawn gurgling whistle of astonishment.  He would
undulating tester rolled the savage away to far distant scenes, I know not,
page --as I fancied --stopping a moment, looking vacantly around him, and
.. <p 49 >
face that little negro idol of his; peering hard into its face, and with a
were best to strike a light, seeing that we were so wide awake; and besides
present the whole story such as it may prove in the mere skeleton I give.
Chapel, I found Queequeg there quite alone; he having left the Chapel before
     Returning to the Spouter-Inn from the

people had departed, and he was left alone in the place.
island far away to the West and South.  It is not down in any map; true
places never are.  When a new-hatched savage running wild about his native
when I had become more familiar with his broken phraseology, now enable me to
covered his face with his hands, and so remained kneeling, till all the
--chiefly known to me by Thy rod --mortal or immortal, here I die.  I have
--top-gallant delight is to him, who acknowledges no law or lord, but the
maternal side he boasted aunts who were the wives of unconquerable warriors.
be mine the lesson that Jonah teaches to all sinners; and therefore to ye,
pluck it out from under the robes of Senators and Judges.  Delight,
sadly vitiated, I fear, by the cannibal propensity he nourished in his
untutored youth.  A Sag Harbor ship visited his father's bay, and Queequeg
sought a passage to Christian lands.  But the ship, having her full complement
bed for confidential disclosures between friends.  Man and wife, they say,
a sure delight; and higher the top of that delight, than the bottom of the
to a distant strait, which he knew the ship must pass through when she quitted
He drooped and fell away from himself for a moment; then lifting his face to
     Woe to him who, in this world, courts not dishonor!  Woe to him who would not
land, covered with mangrove thickets that grew out into the water.  Hiding
his canoe, still afloat, among these thickets, with its prow seaward, he sat

like a flash he darted out; gained her side; with one backward dash of his
foot capsized and sank his canoe; climbed up the chains; and throwing
rather than to appal!  Woe to him whose good name is more to him than goodness!
to let it go, though hacked in pieces.  In vain the captain threatened to throw
elements at work; and the thunders that rolled away from off his swarthy
Almighty's bidding.  And what was that, shipmates?  To preach the Truth to the
and earth; and"vomited out Jonah upon the dry land;" when the word of the
relented, and told him he might make himself at home.  But this fine young
savage --this sea Prince of Wales, never saw the captain's cabin.  They put him
breeching up towards the warm and pleasant sun, and all the delights of air
describing Jonah's sea-storm, seemed tossed by a storm himself.  His deep
his untutored countrymen.  For at bottom --so he told me --he was actuated by a
is, Jonah does not weep and wail for direct deliverance.  He feels that his
people still happier than they were; and more than that, still better than
profound desire to learn among the Christians, the arts whereby to make his
they were.  But, alas!  the practices of whalemen soon convinced him that even
him.  Yet even then beyond the reach of any plummet --"out of the belly of
God came upon him in the whale, and swallowed him down to living gulfs of
the sailors did there; and then going on to Nantucket, and seeing how they
spent their wages in that place also, poor Queequeg gave it up for lost.
Joppa.  But God is everywhere; Tarshish he never reached.  As we have seen,
his mission, and sought to escape his duty and his God by taking ship at
and thus an old idolator at heart, he yet lived among these Christians, wore
their clothes, and tried to talk their gibberish.  Hence the queer ways about
him, though now some time from home.  By hints, I asked him whether he did
a wicked nineveh, jonah, appalled at the hostility he should raise, fled from
his father dead and gone, he being very old and feeble at the last accounts.
.. <p 47 >
rather Christians, had unfitted him for ascending the pure and undefiled
throne of thirty pagan Kings before him.  But by and by, he said, he would
return, --as soon as he felt himself baptized again.  For the nonce, however,
and more awful lesson which Jonah teaches to me as a pilot of
and still more to me, for I am a greater sinner than ye.  And now how gladly
now.  I asked him what might be his immediate purpose, touching his future
movements.  He answered, to go to sea again, in his old vocation.  Upon this,
There was excellent blood in his veins --royal stuff; though
to sail out of Nantucket, as being the most promising port for an adventurous
whaleman to embark from.  He at once resolved to accompany me to that island,
and bowing his head lowly, with an aspect of the deepest yet manliest
communing with God and himself.  But again he leaned over towards the people,
his, boldly dip into the Potluck of both worlds.  To all this I joyously
at last, standing motionless, with closed eyes, for the moment, seemed
dreadful punishment is just.  He leaves all his deliverance to God, contenting
to one, who, like me, was wholly ignorant of the mysteries of whaling, though
well acquainted with the sea, as known to merchant seamen.  His story being
chest heaved as with a ground-swell; his tossed arms seemed the warring
other, this way and that, and very soon were sleeping.
seeming ignominy, if thereby he might happily gain the power of enlightening
Jonah.  While he was speaking these words, the howling of the shrieking,
Jonah before you to be copied for his sin but I do place him before you as a
deliverance of him from the sea and the whale.  Shipmates, I do not place
     himself with this, that spite of all his pains and pangs, he will still
the embalmed head to a barber, for a block, I settled my own and comrade's
bill; using, however, my comrade's money.  The grinning landlord, as well as

sprung up between me and Queequeg -- especially as Peter Coffin's cock and bull
stories about him had previously so much alarmed me concerning the very person
whom I now companied with.  We borrowed a wheelbarrow, and embarking our
things, including my own poor carpet-bag, and Queequeg's canvas sack and
cold, for there is no quality in this world that is not what it is merely by
woodlands in a grass clout, followed by the nibbling goats, as if he were a
awaiting him; and the whale shoots-to all his ivory teeth, like the Lord out
.. <p 46 >
and then stopping to adjust the sheath on his harpoon barbs.  I asked him why
he carried such a troublesome thing with him ashore, and whether all whaling
heeded them not, going along wheeling the barrow by turns, and Queequeg now
ships did not find their own harpoons.  To this, in substance, he replied,
that though what I hinted was true enough, yet he had a particular affection
a masterless commotion that he scarce heeds the moment when he drops seething
many inland reapers and mowers, who go into the farmers' meadows armed with
their own scythes --though in no wise obliged to furnished them -- even so,
your snugness and the cold of the outer air.  Then there you lie like the one
would do to me?  Why, unite with me in my particular Presbyterian form of
about the thing --though in truth he was entirely so, concerning the precise
alone, in Bible language, goes down to it in ships; to and fro ploughing it
as his own special plantation.  There is his home; there lies his business,
     deep itself.  The Nantucketer, he alone resides and riots on the sea; he

it fast; and then shoulders the barrow and marches up the wharf.  Why, said
hides among the waves, he climbs them as chamois hunters climb the Alps.  For
millions in China.  He lives on the sea, as prairie cocks in the prairie; he
like another world, more strangely than the moon would to an Earthsman.  With
strain upon the main-sail had parted the weather-sheet, and the tremendous
highwaymen the road, they but plunder other ships, other fragments of the
floating forts; even pirates and privateers, though following the sea as
the landless gull, that at sunset folds her wings and is rocked to sleep
English overswarm all India, and hang out their blazing banner from the sun;
Poland.  Let America add Mexico to Texas, and pile Cuba upon Canada; let the
.. <p 63 >
from their ant-hill in the sea, overrun and conquered the watery world like
little Moss came snugly to anchor, and Queequeg and I went ashore; so we
assaults!  And thus have these naked Nantucketers, these sea hermits, issuing
Mastodon, clothed with such portentousness of unconscious power, that his
of the Try Pots, whom he asserted to
declared everlasting war with the mightiest animated mass that has survived
sea, explored this watery world; put an incessant belt of circumnavigations
moreover he had assured us that cousin Hosea, as he called him, was famous for
boats and captured cod; and at last, launching a navy of great ships on the
found an empty ivory casket, --the poor little Indian's skeleton.  What wonder,
canoes, after a perilous passage they discovered the island, and there they
the red-men.  Thus goes the legend.  In olden times an eagle swooped down upon
pipe and passed it to me for a puff.  Capting!  Capting!  yelled the
Look now at the wondrous traditional story of how this island was settled by
puzzled us at first, especially as, at the outset, Queequeg insisted that the
two thirds of this terraqueous globe are the Nantucketer's.  For the sea is
     that they are so shut up, belted about, every way inclosed, surrounded, and

However, by dint of beating about a little in the dark, and now and then
knocking up a peaceable inhabitant to inquire the way, we at last came to
something which there was no mistaking.  Two enormous wooden pots painted
prairie; that they wear quicksand shoes, something like Laplander snowshoes;
top-mast, planted in front of an old doorway.  The horns of the cross-trees
were sawed off on the other side, so that this old top-mast looked not a
Nantucket are carried about like bits of the true cross in Rome; that people
grow naturally; that they import Canada thistles; that they have to send
misgiving.  A sort of crick was in my neck as I gazed up to the two remaining
horns; yes, two of them, one for Queequeg, and one for me.  It's ominous,
thinks I. A Coffin my Innkeeper upon landing in my first whaling port;
tombstones staring at me in the whalemen's chapel; and here a gallows!  and a
.. <p 62 >
touching tophet?  I was called from these reflections by the sight of a
freckled woman with yellow hair and a yellow gown, standing in the porch of
beach, without a background.  There is more sand there than you would use in
injured eye, and carrying on a brisk scolding with a man in a purple woollen
shirt.  Get along with ye, said she to the man, or I'll be combing ye!
Eddystone lighthouse.  Look at it --a mere hillock, and elbow of sand; all
Nantucket!  Take out your map and look at it.  See what a real corner of the

.. < chapter xiv 23  NANTUCKET >
and centre of all verdure.  Queequeg caught one of these young saplings
desires for a supper and a bed, Mrs. Hussey, postponing further scolding for
the present, ushered us into a little room, and seating us at a table spread
with the relics of a recently concluded repast, turned round to us and
around him, seemed to be saying to himself -- It's a mutual, joint-stock
from the Humane and Magnanimous Societies.  He only asked for water --fresh
is that what you mean, Mrs. Hussey?  says I; but that's a rather cold and
begged his pardon.  From that hour I clove to Queequeg like a barnacle; yea,
bumpkin was restored.  All hands voted Queequeg a noble trump; the captain
for it in the entry, and seeming to hear nothing but the word clam, Mrs.
seeming to see just how matters were, dived down and disappeared.  A few
from the water, Queequeg now took an instant's glance around him, and
.. <p 61 >
make out a supper for us both on one clam?  However, a warm savory steam from
the kitchen served to belie the apparently cheerless prospect before us.  But
when that smoking chowder came in, the mystery was delightfully explained.
the side with a long living arc of a leap.  For three
clearing away the stern boat, Queequeg, stripped to the waist, darted from
up into little flakes; the whole enriched with butter, and plentifully
seasoned with pepper and salt.  Our appetites being sharpened by the frosty
voyage, and in particular, Queequeg seeing his favorite fishing food before
over his head, and at the next jerk, the spar was that way trapped, and all
and then flinging the other like a lasso, caught it round the boom as it swept
as if it were the lower jaw of an exasperated whale.  In the midst of this
almost in one ticking of a watch, and every instant seemed on the point of
and resumed my seat.  In a few moments the savory steam came forth again, but
boom to stay it, seemed madness.  It flew from right to left, and back again,
endlessness, yea, the intolerableness of all earthly effort.  Gaining the
boom was now flying from side to side, completely sweeping the entire after
pitch, all betokening that new cruises were on the start; that one most
bowl, thinks I to myself, I wonder now if this here has any effect on the
Queequeg no kill-e so small-e fish-e; Queequeg kill-e big whale!  Look you,
face into an unearthly expression of disdain, ah!  him bevy small-e fish-e;
     He say, said I, that you came near kill-e that man there, pointing to the
for the pots there were always boiling chowders.  Chowder for breakfast, and
chowder for dinner, and chowder for supper, till you began to look for

and Hosea Hussey had his account books bound in superior old shark-skin.
casks were piled upon her wharves, and side by side the world-wandering whale
Queequeg, what in thunder do you mean by that?  Don't you know you might have
fishermen's boats, I saw Hosea's brindled cow feeding on fish remnants, and
for, till one morning happening to take a stroll along the beach among some
with clam-shells.  Mrs. Hussey wore a polished necklace of codfish vertebra;
with a different flavor, and in good time a fine cod-chowder was placed
     Hallo, you sir, cried the Captain, a gaunt rib of the sea, stalking up to

arm, and demanded his harpoon; she allowed no harpoon in her chambers.  Why
not?  said I; every true whaleman sleeps with his harpoon --but why not?
bumpkin, running towards that officer; Capting, Capting, here's the devil.
one side, New Bedford rose in terraces of streets, their ice-covered trees
unfort'nt v'y'ge of his, when he was gone four years and a half, with only
three barrels of ile, was found dead in my first floor back, with his
.. <p 60 >
air; then slightly
learned his name), I will just take this here iron, and keep it for you till
morning.  But the chowder; clam or cod to-morrow for breakfast, men?  Both,
says I; and let's have a couple of smoked herring by way of variety.
almost miraculous dexterity and strength, sent him high up bodily into the
     Dropping his harpoon, the brawny savage caught him in his arms, and by an

     In bed we concocted our plans for the morrow.
But to my surprise and no small concern, Queequeg now gave me to understand,
that he had been diligently consulting Yojo --the name of his black little god
Hussey entirely competent to attend to all his affairs.  Upon making known our
bumpkins there, who, by their intense greenness, must have come from the heart
harbor, and in concert selecting our craft; instead of this, I say, Yojo
earnestly enjoined that the selection of the ship should rest wholly with me,
inasmuch as Yojo purposed befriending us; and, in order to do so, had already
pitched upon a vessel, which, if left to myself, I, Ishmael, should
infallibly light upon, for all the world as though it had turned out by
canes in land tornadoes.  So full of this reeling scene were we, as we stood
irrespective of Queequeg.  I have forgotten to mention that, in many things,
every ropeyarn tingling like a wire; the two tall masts buckling like Indian
surprising forecast of things; and cherished Yojo with considerable esteem,
brows as a slave before the Sultan.  Sideways leaning, we sideways darted;
dented with the marks of slavish heels and hoofs; and turned me to admire the
more open water, the bracing breeze waxed fresh; the little Moss tossed the
the Priest, and noting the ceremony, and thinking himself --being Captain of
point out the whaler best fitted to carry us and our fortunes securely.  But
island of Rokovoko, it seems, at their wedding feasts express the fragrant
being said, the High Priest opens the banquet by the immemorial ceremony of
carpenters and coopers, with blended noises of fires and forges to melt the
trifling little affair.  Next morning early, leaving Queequeg shut up with
very slip-shod, I assure ye.  Supper concluded, we received a lamp, and
all glittering in the clear, cold air.  Huge hills and mountains of casks on
placed himself over against the punchbowl, and between the High Priest and
.. <p 59 >
     what you tink now, --Didn't our people laugh?  At last, passage paid, and
several times, I never could master his liturgies and XXXIX Articles --leaving
cottage, this Captain marches in, and being assigned the post of honor,

much prolonged sauntering and many random inquiries, I learnt that there
were three ships up for three-years' voyages --The Devil-Dam the Tit-bit,
bowl; --taking it i suppose for a huge finger-glass.  now, said Queequeg,
a ship --as having plain precedence over a mere island King, especially in the
tribe of Massachusetts Indians, now extinct as the ancient Medes.  I peered
and pryed about the Devil-Dam; from her, hopped over to the Tit-bit; and,
like that plan at all.  I had not a little relied on Queequeg's sagacity to
decided that this was the very ship for us.  You may have seen many a quaint
in which to carry his heavy chest to his boarding house.  Not to seem ignorant
marching along the sand with each foot in a cod's decapitated head, looking
made a corner three points to the starboard, and that done, then ask the first
Queequeg, then, fasting on his tomahawk pipe, and Yojo warming himself at
ship of the old school, rather small if anything; with an old fashioned
claw-footed look about her.  Long seasoned and weather-stained in the typhoons
gentleman, at least for a sea captain --this commander was invited to the
Rokovoko, and its commander --from all accounts, a very stately punctilious
venerable bows looked bearded.  Her masts--cut somewhere on the coast of Japan,
where her original ones were lost overboard in a gale --her masts stood
his majesty the King, Queequeg's father.  Grace being said, -- for those people
I, Queequeg, you might have known better than that, one would think.  Didn't
antiquities, were added new and marvellous features, pertaining to the wild
business that for more than half a century she had followed.  Old Captain
years he knows not the land; so that when he comes to it at last, it smells
yellow warehouse --our first point of departure --must be left on the larboard
     her original grotesqueness, and inlaid it, all over, with a quaintness both
.. <p 69 >
apparelled like any barbaric Ethiopian emperor, his neck heavy with pendants
hard-hearted to say the least.  He never used to swear, though, at his men,
home, were mostly all carried ashore to the hospital, sore exhausted and worn
out.  For a pious man, especially for a Quaker, he was certainly rather
story, that when he sailed the old Categut whaleman, his crew, upon arriving
task-master.  They told me in Nantucket, though it certainly seems a curious
being an incorrigible old hunks, and in his sea-going days, a bitter, hard
little cabin-boy in short clothes of the drabbest drab, to a harpooneer in a
idleness perished from before him.  His own person was the exact embodiment of
practical world quite another.  This world pays dividends.  Rising from a
reconciled these things in the reminiscence, I do not know; but it did not
gore.  How now in the contemplative evening of his days, the pious Bildad
saw seated on the transom when I followed Captain Peleg down into the cabin.
consistency about worthy Captain Bildad.  Though refusing, from conscientious
his vest.  Still, for all this immutableness, was there some lack of common
tails.  His broad-brim was placed beside him; his legs were stiffly crossed;
had not only been originally educated according to the strictest sect of
are called serious things, and indeed deemed those selfsame serious things
do with such an one, but with quite another; and still a man, who, if indeed
on Captain Ahab, young man, and thou wilt find that he has only one leg.
ambition, all mortal greatness is but disease.  But, as yet we have not to
if either by birth or other circumstances, he have what seems a half wilful
seeing me, glanced again inquiringly towards Peleg.  He says he's our man,
     accidental advantages, to learn a bold and nervous lofty language --that man

so intense a Quaker.  What do ye think of him, Bildad?  said Peleg.  He'll
do, said Bildad, eyeing me, and then went on spelling away at his book in a
here at the north, been led to think untraditionally and independently;
especially as Peleg, his friend and old shipmate, seemed such a blusterer.
peculiarities, a thousand bold dashes of character, not unworthy a
adventure of their subsequent lives, strangely blend with these unoutgrown
Quakers; they are Quakers with a vengeance.  So that there are instances among
they said; but somehow he got an inordinate quantity of cruel, unmitigated
settle with myself at what terms I would be willing to engage for the voyage.
peculiarities of the Quaker, only variously and anomalously modified by
.. <p 73 >
Now, Bildad, like Peleg, and indeed many other Nantucketers,
annuitants; widows, fatherless children, and chancery wards; each owning
pertaining to the respective duties of the ship's company.
as is sometimes the case in these ports, being held by a crowd of old
cabin.  seated on the transom was what seemed to me a most uncommon and
things altogether alien and heterogeneous.  For some of these same Quakers are
splice a rope, and all that, I made no doubt that from all I had heard I
-- come along with ye.  And so saying, he led the way below deck into the
now repeated to Peleg.  Seeing me so determined, he expressed his willingness
though the 275th lay was what they call a rather long lay, yet it was
and the Pequod was as good a ship as any --I thought the best -- and all this I
go round Cape Horn to see any more of it, eh?  Can't ye see the world where
think.  Well, what dost thou think then of seeing the world?  Do ye wish to
that this was a poor way to accumulate a princely fortune --and so it was, a
till you could clutch something --a hammer or a marling-spike, and go to work
slightest variety that I could see.  Well, what's the report?  said Peleg
very large; but considering that I was used to the sea, could steer a ship,
humorously or in earnest.  But concentrating all his crow's feet into one
puzzled by this curious request, not knowing exactly how to take it, whether
go in order to see the world?  Was not that what ye said?  I thought so.  Well
.. <p 72 >

Bildad; how that they being the principal proprietors of the Pequod,
Captain of the Pequod, what dost thou want of him?  he demanded.  I was
go a-whaling, to find out by experience what whaling is, but ye also want to
the whole management of the ship's affairs to these two.  And I did not know
and then jump after it?  Answer, quick!  I am, sir, if it should be
good.  Now, art thou the man to pitch a harpoon down a live whale's throat,
in the cabin, and reading his Bible as if at his own fireside.  Now while
that!  Mind what I said about the marchant service --don't aggravate me --I
no small surprise, considering that he was such an interested party in these
much from the simple fact of the accident.  Look ye now, young man, thy
ferocity in that particular whale, though indeed I might have inferred as
his concluding exclamation, but said as calmly as I could, What you say is
     Young man, come nearer to me: it was devoured, chewed up, crunched by the

.. <p 77 >
     What do you mean, sir?  Was the other one lost by a whale?  Lost by a whale!

interlacing round his eyes, which must have arisen from his continual
corrupt, but lay--" Lay, indeed, thought I, and such a lay!  the seven
now, for the last thirty years, to my certain knowledge.  How far ye got,
for one, shall not lay up many lays here below, where moth and rust do
crew.  We are part owners and agents.  But as I was going to say, if thou
magnitude of the figure it might at first deceive a landsman, yet the
seventy-seventh wouldn't be too much, would it? -- "where moth and rust do

slightest consideration will show that though seven hundred and seventy-seven
farthing is a good deal less than seven hundred and seventy-seven gold
.. <p 71 >
Captain Ahab?
particular, perhaps, about the
therefore the other and more inconsiderable and scattered owners, left nearly
treasure is, there will your heart be also.  I am going to put him down for
rather distrustful of all aliens, unless they hailed from Cape Cod or the
insulated Quakerish Nantucketer, was full of his insular prejudices, and
towards him said, Captain Peleg, thou hast a generous heart; but thou must
     thy last Captain, didst thou? --Dost not think of murdering the officers when

The seven hundred and seventy-seventh lay, Captain Peleg.  Thou Bildad!
concealed in this queer tenement, I at length found one who by his aspect
roared Peleg, starting up and clattering about the cabin.  Blast ye, Captain
suspicious, don't it, eh? --Hast not been a pirate, hast thou? --Didst not rob
of the marchant service to me again.  Marchant service indeed!  I suppose now
see that leg? --I'll take that leg away from thy stern, if ever thou talkest
steadily, thy conscience may be drawing ten inches of water, or ten fathoms,
all about whaling, I dare say --eh?  Nothing, Sir; but I have no doubt I
--ever been in a stove boat?  No, Sir, I never have.  Dost know nothing at
.. <p 78 >
land wood, but deftly travelled over sheaves of sea-ivory.  Scorning a
broad ends on the deck, a circle of these slabs laced together, mutually
Pequod?  said I, advancing to the door of the tent.  Supposing it be the
bound to hell.  Flukes and flames!  Bildad, say that again to me, and start
high;  consisting of the long, huge slabs of limber black bone taken from
insult me.  It's an all-fired outrage to tell any human creature that he's
eye-wrinkles are very effectual in a scowl.  Is this the Captain of the
causes the muscles about the eyes to become pursed together.  Such
first I saw nobody; but I could not well overlook a strange sort of tent, or
sink thee foundering down to the fiery pit, Captain Peleg.
appearance of the elderly man I saw; he was brown and brawny, like most old
.. <p 70 >
more than that.  Seven hundred and seventy-seventh, again said Bildad,
time eluded him.  Alarmed at this terrible outburst between the two principal
my astonishment, he sat down again on the transom very quietly, and seemed
to have not the slightest intention of withdrawing.  He seemed quite used to
seemed to have authority; and who, it being noon, and the ship's work
hereditary foe.  The helmsman who steered by that tiller in a tempest, felt
Pottowotamie Sachem's head.  A triangular opening faced towards the bows of
sloped towards each other, and at the apex united in a tufted point, where
used to be good at sharpening a lance, mend that pen, will ye.  My jack-knife
was all eagerness to vanish from before the awakened wrath of Peleg.  But to
very poor way indeed.  But I am one of those that never take on about princely
while I am putting up at this grim sign of the Thunder Cloud.  Upon the whole,
old hempen thews and tendons to.  Those thews ran not through base blocks of
authority, in order to propose myself as a candidate for the voyage, at
like the Tartar, when he holds back his fiery steed by clutching its jaw.  A
said peleg.  fetch him along, and we'll look at him.  What lay does he
want?  groaned Bildad, glancing up from the book in which he had again been
whistled at last -- the squall's gone off to leeward, I think.  Bildad, thou
will then see, I say, that the seven hundred and seventy-seventh part of a
my soul-bolts, but I'll--I'll--yes, I'll swallow a live goat with all his
long sharp teeth of the sperm whale, inserted there for pins, to fasten her
without lifting his eyes; and then went on mumbling -- for where your
young man, we may be taking the bread from those widows and those orphans.
don't think thou wilt be able to at present.  I don't know exactly what's the
Queequeg.  But not a word did he reply.  Despairing of him, therefore, I
get up and have some supper.  You'll starve; you'll kill yourself,
hands.  Turning back I accosted Captain Peleg, inquiring where Captain Ahab
matter with him; but he keeps close inside the house; a sort of sick, and
of wood on his head.  For heaven's sake, Queequeg, get up and shake yourself;
previous had taken from him, before our mounting to the chamber.  That's
just where I had left him; he had not stirred an inch.  I began to grow
certainly have brought his Ramadan to a termination.  But no; there he was
not four feet off --sitting there in that uneasy position, stark alone in
the cold and dark; this made me really wretched.  Think of it; sleeping all
I went up stairs to go to bed, feeling quite sure by this time Queequeg must
unaccountable Ramadan!  But somehow I dropped off at last, and knew nothing
more till break of day; when, looking over the bedside, there squatted
a schooner or brig, confined to the north of the line, in the Atlantic Ocean
a plum-pudding voyage, as they called it (that is, a short whaling-voyage in
joints, but with a cheerful look; limped towards me where I lay; pressed
his forehead again against mine; and said his Ramadan was over.  Now, as I
long time listening to the long stories of some sailors who had just come from
may, so long as that person does not kill or insult any other person,
don't believe it's very punctual then.  I went down to supper.  After sitting a
native island.  It must be so; yes, it's part of his creed, I suppose; 
makes this earth of ours an uncomfortable inn to lodge in; then I think it
     I endeavored to prevail upon Queequeg to take a chair; but in vain.  There

lie and listen to me.  I then went on, beginning with the rise and progress
of the primitive religions, and coming down to the various religions of the
present time, during which time I labored to show Queequeg that all these
I will see to this strange affair myself.  Closing the door upon the landlady,
stark nonsense; bad for the health; useless for the soul; opposed, in
short, to the obvious laws of Hygiene and common sense.  I told him, too, that
Hussey, said I, he's alive at all events; so leave us, if you please, and
.. <p 84 >
this ridiculous Ramadan of his.  Besides, argued I, fasting makes the body
cave in; hence the spirit caves in; and all thoughts born of a fast must
intolerable, it seemed so painfully and unnaturally
religionists cherish such melancholy notions about their hereafters.  In one
vexed with him; it seemed so downright senseless and insane to be sitting
felt like pushing him over, so as to change his position, for it was almost
     one way nor the other way, but sat like a carved image with scarce a sign of

let him be, I say: and Heaven have mercy on us all --Presbyterians and Pagans
expressing the idea very plainly, so that he could take it in.  He said no;
only upon one memorable occasion.  It was after a great feast given by his
father the king, on the gaining of a great battle wherein fifty of the enemy
noise the door flew open, and the knob slamming against the wall, sent the
sudden bodily rush dashed myself full against the mark.  With a prodigious
side-pocket, here's a key that'll fit, I guess; let's see.  And with that,
there's one about a mile from here.  But avast!  putting her hand in her
ghost!  What's that noise there?  You, young man, avast there!  And running
--might as well kill both birds at once.  Kill?  The Lord be merciful to his
in great wooden trenchers, and garnished round like a pilau, with breadfruit
christians should be charitable in these things, and not fancy ourselves so
the victor's compliments to all his friends, just as though these presents
were so many Christmas turkeys.  After all, I do not think that my remarks
me a sign, with --"no suicides permitted here, and no smoking in the parlor;"
harpoon was missing.  He's killed himself, she cried.  It's unfort'nate
to one side of her nose, she ruminated for an instant; then exclaimed -- No!  I
more than one third understand me, couch my ideas simply as I would; and,
.. <p 83 >
than I did.  He looked at me with a sort of condescending concern and
heart to undervalue even a congregation of ants worshipping a toad-stool; or
gave her to understand the whole case.  Unconsciously clapping the
--and with that she seized my arm.  What's the matter with you?  What's the
of all sorts, so that the landlady should not make much profit by reason of
his Ramadan, we sallied out to board the Pequod, sauntering along, and
picking our teeth with halibut bones.
God's sake, run for the doctor, some one, while I pry it open!  Look here,
countenance.  What's the matter with you, young man?  Get the axe!  For
     which way to it?  Run for God's sake, and fetch something to pry open the

towards the ship, Queequeg carrying his harpoon, Captain Peleg in his gruff
voice loudly hailed us from his wigwam, saying he had not suspected my friend
was a cannibal, and furthermore announcing that he let no cannibals on board
apoplexy! --and with these cries, she ran towards the kitchen, I following.
in for safe keeping.  La!  La, ma'am! --Mistress!  murder!  Mrs. Hussey!
comrade standing on the wharf.  I mean, he replied, he must show his
papers.  Yea, said Captain Bildad in his hollow voice, sticking his head
from behind Peleg's, out of the wigwam.  He must show that he's converted.
     resisted.  Running down stairs, I quickly stated my suspicions to the first

the present dark Ahab slipped my mind.
sailing in Nantucket ships at last come to be converted into the churches.
have happened.  Apoplexy!  I tried to burst open the door; but it stubbornly
and no possible mistake.  Queequeg! --Queequeg! --all still.  Something must
strange, thought I; but at any rate, since the harpoon stands yonder, and he
spectacles, he rubbed them with his great yellow bandana handkerchief, and
jacket, and threw it over him, as it promised to be a very cold night; and he
.. <p 82 >

word, Queequeg, said I, rather digressively; hell is an idea first born on
it would have washed some of that devil's blue off his face.  Do tell, now,
an odd corner of the room, the key-hole prospect was but a crooked and
my lad; stricken, blasted, if he be, Ahab has his humanities!  As I walked
an apoplectic fit.  I looked through the key-hole; but the door opening into
alarmed.  I had allowed him such abundant time; I thought he might have had
I softly through the key-hole: --all silent.  I say, Queequeg!  why don't you
and rituals must be over, I went up to his room and knocked at the door; but
alike --for we are all somehow dreadfully cracked about the head, and sadly
I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with dyspepsia;
said Bildad sternly, thou art skylarking with me --explain thyself, thou
would follow me.  But previous to turning in, I took my heavy bearskin
content; and there let him rest.  All our arguing with him would not avail;
entertaining the most absurd notions about Yojo and his Ramadan; --but what of
and cocoanuts; and with some parsley in their mouths, were sent round with
of a deceased landed proprietor merely on account of the inordinate
only some of us cherish some queer crotchets noways touching the grand belief;
compassion, as though he thought it a great pity that such a sensible young
Humiliation, was to continue all day, I did not choose to disturb him till
     As Queequeg's Ramadan, or Fasting and
instead of a fore-mast hand; I never heard a better sermon.  Deacon
Deuteronomy --why Father Mapple himself couldn't beat it, and he's reckoned
something.  Come aboard, come aboard; never mind about the papers.  I say,
tell Quohog there --what's that you call him?  tell Quohog to step along.  By
the great anchor, what a harpoon he's got there!  looks like good stuff that;

Without saying a word, Queequeg, in his wild sort of way, jumped upon the
bulwarks, from thence into the bows of one of the whale-boats hanging to the
may tell thee the same.  I wish to warn thee.  It's a lie.  I know Captain
side; and then bracing his left knee, and poising his harpoon, cried out in
some such way as this: -- Cap'ain, you see him small drop tar on water dere?
.. <p 81 >
first Congregational Church.  Here be it said, that many tattooed savages
the ship's decks, and struck the glistening tar spot out of sight.  Now,
said Queequeg, quietly hauling in the line, spos-ee him whale-e eye; why,
it; and it did not disincline me towards him; though I felt impatience at
all describe, was not exactly awe; I do not know what it was.  But I felt
him, but for I don't know what, unless it was the cruel loss of his leg.  And
close vicinity of the flying harpoon, had retreated towards the cabin gangway.
meeting?  I never saw him going there, and I pass it every Lord's day.
child: hold ye then there can be any utter, hopeless harm in Ahab?  No, no,
there, I mean Quohog, in one of our boats.  Look ye, Quohog, we'll give ye
the ninetieth lay, and that's more than ever was given a harpooneer yet out of
     it's better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one.  So

was soon enrolled among the same ship's company to which I myself belonged.
When all preliminaries were over and Peleg had got everything ready for
all pass off.  And once for all, let me tell thee and assure thee, young man,
write, does he?  I say, Quohog, blast ye!  dost thou sign thy name or make thy
mark?  But at this question, Queequeg, who had twice or thrice before taken
been a kind of moody --desperate moody, and savage sometimes; but that will
pen, copied upon the paper, in the proper place, an exact counterpart of a
queer round figure which was tattooed upon his arm; so that through Captain
Ahab well; I've sailed with him as mate years ago; I know what he is--a
steadfastly eyeing Queequeg, and at last rising solemnly and fumbling in the
this: -- Quohog his mark.  Meanwhile Captain Bildad sat earnestly and
the waves; fixed his fiery lance in mightier stranger foes than whales.  His
     Come hither to me --hither, hither, said Peleg, with a significance in his

duty by thee; I am part owner of this ship, and feel concerned for the souls
in colleges, as well as 'mong the cannibals; been used to deeper wonders than
looked earnestly into his eyes, and said, Son of darkness, I must do my
.. <p 80 >
Ahab of old, thou knowest, was a crowned king!  And a very vile one.  When
I say; oh!  goodness gracious!  steer clear of the fiery pit!  Something of
the salt sea yet lingered in old Bildad's language, heterogeneously mixed with
Scriptural and domestic phrases.  Avast there, avast there, Bildad, avast now
ain't Captain Bildad; no, and he ain't Captain Peleg; he's Ahab, boy; and
cried Peleg.  Pious harpooneers never make good voyagers --it takes the shark
out of 'em; no harpooneer is worth a straw who aint pretty sharkish.  There
was young Nat Swaine, once the bravest boat-header out of all Nantucket and
you ever stand in the head of a whale-boat?  did you ever strike a fish?
of all its crew; if thou still clingest to thy Pagan ways, which I sadly
He's a queer man, Captain Ahab --so some think --but a good one.  Oh, thou'lt
whales, for fear of after-claps in case he got stove and went to Davy Jones.
young man.  No, said Peleg, and he hasn't been baptized right either, or
young Hittite.  What church dost thee mean?  answer me.  Finding myself thus

Think of Death and the Judgment then?  No!  no time to think about Death then.
be found wanting in the Pequod, after once fairly getting to sea.  At one time
cabin, and thrusting his hands far down into his pockets, -- hear him, all of
kindhearted, who seemed resolved that, if she could help it, nothing should
his log; a third time with a roll of flannel for the small of some one's
old lady of a most determined and indefatigable spirit, but withal very
rheumatic back.  Never did any woman better deserve her name, which was
board of divers odds and ends of things, both large and small.  Chief among
before hinted, for some time there was a continual fetching and carrying on
comfort, and consolation to all on board
at the Island, the heaviest storage of the Pequod had been almost completed;
almost, but a spare captain and duplicate ship.  At the period of our arrival
herself owned a score or two of well-saved dollars.  But it was startling to
see this excellent hearted Quakeress coming on board, as she did the last
she would come on board with a jar of pickles for the steward's pantry;
spare boats, spare spars, and spare lines and harpoons, and spare everythings,
must be remembered, that of all ships, whaling vessels are the most exposed
impossibility of replacing them at the remote harbors usually frequented, it
holds true of merchant vessels, yet not by any means to the same extent as
grocers, costermongers, doctors, bakers, and bankers.  And though this also
knives and forks, shovels and tongs, napkins, nut-crackers, and what not, are
equipped.  Every one knows what a multitude of things --beds, sauce-pans,
preparation, Queequeg and I often visited the craft, and as often I asked
is no telling how many things to be thought of, before the Pequod was fully
.. <p 95 >
seems they always give very long notice in these cases, and the ship did not
Peleg and Bildad, could attend to everything necessary to fit the vessel for
the other.  Nor was Bildad himself nor Captain Peleg at all backward.  As for
the voyage.  If I had been downright honest with myself, I would have seen
down our traps, resolving, however, to sleep ashore till the last.  But it
close.  Captain Peleg seldom or never went ashore, but sat in his wigwam
activity aboard the pequod.  not only were the old sails being mended, but
     A day or two passed, and there was great
suspicions even from himself.  And much this way it was with me.  I said
nothing, and tried to think nothing.  At last it was given out that some time

.. < chapter xx 15  ALL ASTIR >
.. <p 97 >
.. < chapter xxi 2  GOING ABOARD >
.. <p 94 >
     and on that side of it retraced our steps.  But Elijah passed on, without
imperfect misty dawn, when we drew nigh the wharf.  There are some sailors
running ahead there, if I see right, said I to Queequeg, it can't be
shadows; she's off by sunrise, I guess; come on!  Avast!  cried a voice,
those who did this fetching and carrying was Captain Bildad's sister, a lean
shoulders, and then insinuating himself between us, stood stooping forward a

very plainly in my heart that I did but half fancy being committed this way to
said Queequeg, shaking himself, go 'way!  Aint going aboard, then?  Yes,
was Elijah.  Going aboard?  Hands off, will you, said I. Lookee here,
and the voyage we had bound ourselves to sail; and a hundred other shadowy
I left the ship the day previous; and the prediction of the squaw Tistig;
fit; and the silver calabash; and what Captain Peleg had said of him, when
oblige my friend and me by withdrawing.  We are going to the Indian and Pacific
all kinds of vague wonderments and half-apprehensions, and all connected with
.. <p 94 >
cried stationary Elijah, hailing us when we had removed a few paces.  Never
mind him, said I, Queequeg, come on.  But he stole up to us again, and
suddenly clapping his hand on my shoulder, said -- Did ye see anything looking
half-revealing, shrouded sort of talk, now begat in me
did so, who should be seen but Elijah following us, though at a distance.
above a hundred yards, when chancing to turn a corner, and looking back as I
     Elijah.  Elijah!  thought I, and we walked away, both commenting, after

     Very dim, very dim, said Elijah.  Morning to ye.  Once more we quitted him;
.. <p 92 >
but once more he came softly after us; and touching my shoulder again, said,
let's leave this crazy man.  But stop, tell me your name, will you?
for him --the likes of ye.  Morning to ye, shipmates, morning!  Oh, when ye get
there, tell 'em I've concluded not to make one of 'em.  Ah, my dear fellow,
other must go with him, I suppose; as well these as any other men, God pity
all.  Any how, it's all fixed and arranged a'ready; and some sailors or
soon, I guess; unless it's before the Grand Jury.  And with these cracked
to ye!  he rejoined, again moving off.  Oh!  I was going to warn ye against
in a troubled reverie; then starting a little, turned and said: -- Ye've
and eye levelled at the Pequod, the beggar-like stranger stood a moment, as if
locked within; the hatches were all on, and lumbered with coils of rigging.
     All about it, eh --sure you do? --all?  Pretty sure.  With finger pointed

tattered pea-jacket.  He was thrown at whole length upon two chests, his face
object.  Yes, said I, we have just signed the articles.  Anything down
upon him.  Those sailors we saw, Queequeg, where can they have gone to?
said I, looking dubiously at the sleeper.  But it seemed that, when on the
wharf, Queequeg had not at all noticed what I now alluded to; hence I would
.. <p 93 >
     My friend, said I, what all this gibberish of yours is about, I don't
from him, with the fixed bayonet of his pointed finger darted full at the
had best sit up with the body; telling him to establish himself accordingly.

about his losing his leg last voyage, according to the prophecy.  Didn't ye
Queequeg, don't sit there, said I. Oh!  perry dood seat, said Queequeg, my
country way; won't hurt him face.  Face!  said I, call that his face?  very
benevolent countenance
about that, eh?  Nothing about the silver calabash he spat into?  And nothing
then; but how hard he breathes, he's heaving himself; get off, Queequeg,
whose owner at the same time coming close behind us, laid a hand upon both our
Ahab.  But nothing about that thing that happened to him off Cape Horn, long
gives an order.  Step and growl; growl and go --that's the word with Captain
his face, and left it like the complicated ribbed bed of a torrent, when the
other.  Meanwhile, upon questioning him in his broken fashion, Queequeg gave
me to understand that, in his land, owing to the absence of settees and sofas
     That's true, that's true --yes, both true enough.  But you must jump when he

fellows, and lay them round in the piers and alcoves.  Besides, it was very
house comfortably in that respect, you had only to buy up eight or ten lazy
I've heard that he's a good whale-hunter, and a good captain to his crew.
     Look ye; when captain Ahab is all right, then this left arm of mine will be
and desiring him to make a settee of himself under a spreading tree, perhaps
in faded jacket and patched trowsers; a rag of a black handkerchief
investing his neck.  A confluent small-pox had in all directions flowed over
received the tomahawk from me, he flourished the hatchet-side of it over the

sleeper's head.  What's that for, Queequeg?  Perry easy, kill-e; oh!  perry
soul, when we were directly attracted to the sleeping rigger.  The strong
vapor now completely filling the contracted hole, it began to tell upon him.
Ye hav'n't seen him yet, have ye?  No, we hav'n't.  He's sick they say, but
     Stop!  cried the stranger.  Ye said true --ye hav'n't seen Old Thunder yet,

     he breathed at last, who be ye smokers?  Shipped men, answered I, when
does she sail?  Aye, aye, ye are going in her, be ye?  She sails to-day.
The Captain came aboard last night.  What Captain? --Ahab?  Who but him
indeed?
Queequeg and I had just left the Pequod, and were sauntering away from the
I.  He's got enough, though, to make up for all deficiencies of that sort in
noise on deck.  Halloa!  Starbuck's astir, said the rigger.  He's a lively
chief mate, that; good man, and a pious; but all alive now, I must turn
to.  And so saying he went on deck, and we followed.  It was now clear
sunrise.  Soon the crew came on board in twos and threes; the riggers
of a fifth wheel to a wagon.  What are you jabbering about, shipmate?  said
--good luck to 'em; and they are all the better off for it.  A soul's a sort
downwards and inclosed in his folded arms.  The profoundest slumber slept
.. <p 100 >
and again marking the sleeper, jocularly hinted to Queequeg that perhaps we
     You mean the ship Pequod, I suppose, said I, trying to gain a little more

final dismissal of the ship's riggers, and after the Pequod had been hauled
out from the wharf, and after the ever-thoughtful Charity had come off in a
whaleboat, with her last gift --a night-cap for Stubb, the second mate, her
at the feet.  We kept the pipe passing over the sleeper, from one to the
which, it seemed, had in its two uses both brained his foes and soothed his
mate, Peleg said: Now, Mr. Starbuck, are you sure everything is right?
might have been wasted.
shore, eh?  Well, call all hands, then.  Muster 'em aft here --blast 'em!  No
need of profane words, however great the hurry, Peleg, said Bildad, but
massive forefinger at the vessel in question.  He was but shabbily apparelled
very point of starting for the voyage, Captain Peleg and Captain Bildad were
     deck, where we followed him.  There he stood, very quietly overlooking some
     Shipmates, have ye shipped in that ship?
Captain Ahab, no sign of him was yet to be seen; Only, they said he was in the
cabin.  But then, the idea was,

that his presence was by no means necessary in getting the ship under weigh,
and steering her well out to sea.  Indeed, as that was not at all his proper
.. < chapter xix 2  THE PROPHET >
they said --therefore, Captain Ahab stayed below.  And all this seemed natural
enough; especially as in the merchant service many captains never show
.. <p 91 >
remain over the cabin table, having a farewell merrymaking with their shore
friends, before they quit the ship for good with the pilot.  But there was
in some damp marshy place.  While narrating these things, every time Queequeg
we are, said I, but what business is that of yours?  Do you know, Mr.

--how to rig jury-masts -- how to get into the nearest port; that was what I
main-mast.  Mr. Starbuck, drive 'em aft.  Strike the tent there! --was the
next order.  As I hinted before, this whalebone marquee was never pitched
strike the tent was well known to be the next thing to heaving up the anchor.
words he finally departed, leaving me, for the moment, in no small wonderment
you are heavy, it's grinding the face of the poor.  Get off, Queequeg!  Look,
be seen actively engaged in looking over the bows for the approaching anchor,
board the Pequod, particularly in getting under weigh; and Charity, his
burn, as before so many shrines, to our glory!  But look at this matter in
concerned in, for he never piloted any other craft --Bildad, I say, might now
for almost all the tapers, lamps, and candles that burn round the globe,
fleets?  Why did Louis XVI.  of France, at his own personal expense, fit out
have been.  Why did the Dutch in DeWitt's time have admirals of their whaling
of families from our own island of Nantucket?  Why did Britain between the
other lights; weigh it in all sorts of scales; see what we whalemen are, and
unwittingly pay us the profoundest homage; yea, an all-abounding adoration!
whaling ships from Dunkirk, and politely invite to that town some score or two
comprehensible terrors of man compared with the interlinked terrors and
a battery, would quickly recoil at the apparition of the sperm whale's vast
idea of peril so much enhances the popular conceit of the soldier's
.. <p 107 >
in question to be true; what disordered slippery decks of a whale-ship are
seven hundred vessels; manned by eighteen thousand men; yearly consuming 00824,000,000 of dollars; the ships worth, at the time of sailing, 20,000,000
among the cleanliest things of this tidy earth.  But even granting the charge
are, that is true.  But butchers, also, and butchers of the bloodiest badge
whaling?  But this is not the half; look again.  I freely assert, that the
cosmopolite philosopher cannot, for his life, point out one single peaceful
engaged therein, we are surrounded by all manner of defilements.  Butchers we
upon the whole broad world, taken in one aggregate, than the high and mighty
Whale Fishery) to his visiting card, such a procedure would be deemed
his merits, were he presented to the company as a harpooneer, say; and if in
issues, that whaling may well be regarded as that Egyptian mother, who bore
offspring themselves pregnant from her womb.  It would be a hopeless, endless
task to catalogue all these things.  Let a handful suffice.  For many
metropolitan society, it would but slightly advance the general opinion of
wonders of God!  But, though the world scouts at us whale hunters, yet does it
deemed almost superfluous to establish the fact, that among people at large,
injustice hereby done to us hunters of whales.  In the first place, it may be
     to be regarded among landsmen as a rather unpoetical and disreputable

them the way, and first interpreted between them and the savages.  They may
celebrate as they will the heroes of Exploring Expeditions, your Cookes,
     As Queequeg and I are now fairly embarked
out of Nantucket, that were as great, and greater than your Cooke and your
Krusenstern.  For in their succorless emptyhandedness, they, in the

battled with virgin wonders and terrors that Cooke with all his marines and
muskets would not willingly have dared.  All that is made such a flourish of
in the old South Sea Voyages, those things were but the lifetime commonplaces
of our heroic Nantucketers.  Often, adventures which Vancouver dedicates three
.. < chapter xxiv 2  THE ADVOCATE >
.. <p 106 >
Cape Horn, no commerce but colonial, scarcely any intercourse but colonial,
was carried on between Europe and the long line of the opulent Spanish
provinces on the Pacific coast.  It was the whaleman who first broke through
crawl to land!  Terrors of the terrible!  is all this agony so vain?  Take
space permitted, it might be distinctly shown how from those whalemen at last
eventuated the liberation of Peru, Chili, and Bolivia from the yoke of Old
lee, even if that were safety!  For worm-like, then, oh!  who would craven
great America on the other side of the sphere, Australia, was given to the
alone resides the highest truth, shoreless, indefinite as God --so, better is
barbarous; but the whale-ship touched there.  The whale-ship is the true
earnest thinking is but the intrepid effort of the soul to keep the open
lantern came too near.  And he, too, did not a little run from cabin to deck
Glimpses do ye seem to see of that mortally intolerable truth; that all deep,
ourselves almost broad upon the wintry ocean, whose freezing spray cased us
his face, as much as to say, Nevertheless, friend Peleg, I can stand it;
fights 'gainst the very winds that fain would blow her homeward; seeks all
same truth, and do commercial homage to the whale-ship, that cleared the way
from starvation by the benevolent biscuit of the whale-ship luckily dropping
that ship's direst jeopardy; she must fly all hospitality; one touch of
the hand, and holding up a lantern, for a moment stood gazing heroically in
the lashed sea's landlessness again; for refuge's sake forlornly rushing into
this, you still declare that whaling has no aesthetically noble associations
all that's kind to our mortalities.  But in that gale, the port, the land, is
it fared with him as with the storm-tossed ship, that miserably drives along
looked right and left; looked everywhere and nowhere; and at last,
six-inch chapter is the stoneless grave of Bulkington.  Let me only say that
dangerous voyage, could so unrestingly push off again for still another
     When on that shivering winter's night, the Pequod thrust her vindictive bows
narrative of a whaling-voyage?  Who, but no less a prince than Alfred the
Great, who, with his own royal pen, took down the words from Other, the

in Parliament?  Who, but Edmund Burke!  True enough, but then whalemen
themselves are poor devils; they have no good blood in their veins.  No good
     Some chapters back, one Bulkington was

Mary Folger, one of the old settlers of Nantucket, and the ancestress to a
The grandmother of Benjamin Franklin was Mary Morrel" afterwards, by marriage,
freely, while imperturbable Bildad kept leading off with his psalmody.  Thinks
.. < chapter xxiii 28  THE LEE SHORE >
.. <p 104 >
boat.  Ship and boat diverged; the cold, damp night breeze blew between; a
Good-bye, good-bye!  Don't keep that cheese too long down in the hold, Mr.
law, the whale is declared a royal fish.
I thought.  If ye touch at the islands, Mr. Flask, beware of fornication.
gifts.  Have an eye to the molasses tierce, Mr. Stubb; it was a little leaky,
store; and meads and glades so eternally vernal, that the grass shot up by
one of the mighty triumphs given to a Roman general upon his entering the
that had accompanied us began ranging alongside.  It was curious and not
either.  Mr Starbuck, mind that cooper don't waste the spare staves.  Oh!  the
Don't stave the boats needlessly, ye harpooneers; good white cedar plank is
whaling.  No dignity in whaling?  The dignity of our calling the very
heavens attest.  Cetus is a constellation in the South!  No more!  Drive down
will be due; for already she is on the threshold.  But if, in the face of all
know a man that, in his lifetime, has taken three hundred and fifty whales.  I
bless ye, and have ye in His holy keeping, men, murmured old Bildad, almost
Mr. Flask --good-bye, and good luck to ye all --and this day three years I'll
possibility, there be any as yet undiscovered prime thing in me; if I shall
ever deserve any real repute in that small but high hushed world which I might
.. <p 104 >
upon the whole, a man might rather have done than to have left undone; if, at
my death, my executors, or more properly my creditors, find any precious MSS.

whaling; for a whale-ship was my Yale College and my Harvard.
beyond the swelling flood, Stand dressed in living green.  So to the Jews old
--say your last.  Luck to ye, Starbuck --luck to ye, Mr. Stubb --luck to ye,
See subsequent chapters for something more on this head.
Stand by to come close alongside, now!  Careful, careful! --come, Bildad, boy
Bildad --come, old shipmate, we must go.  Back the main-yard there!  Boat ahoy!
--now a word below, and now a word with Starbuck, the chief mate.  But, at
elephant, vast curving icicles depended from the bows.  Lank Bildad, as pilot,
for the missionary and the merchant, and in many cases carried the primitive
mother of that now mighty colony.  Moreover, in the infancy of the first
is ever to become hospitable, it is the whale-ship alone to whom the credit
author, and whaling no famous chronicler, you will say.  The whale no
surmise, which might tell eloquently upon his cause --such an advocate, would
he not be blameworthy?  It is well known that at the coronation of kings and
Bildad lingered long; paced the deck with anxious strides" ran down into the
their functions is gone through.  There is a saltcellar of state, so called,
and there may be a caster of state.  How they use the salt, precisely --who
coronation, even as a head of salad.  Can it be, though, that they anoint it
good-bye to a thing so every way brimful of every interest to him, --poor old
might be ruminated here, concerning the essential dignity of this regal
on my handspike, and told Queequeg to do the same, thinking of the perils we
process, because in common life we esteem but meanly and contemptibly a
world's capital, the bones of a whale, brought all the way from the Syrian
Captain Bildad.  For loath to depart, yet; very loath to leave, for good, a
a quoggy spot in him somewhere.  As a general rule, he can't amount to much in
long line of Folgers and harpooneers --all kith and kin to noble Benjamin
imposing way.  The whale never figured in any grand imposing way?  In
.. <p 103 >
of oil is used at coronations?  Certainly it cannot be olive oil, nor macassar
oil, nor castor oil, nor bear's oil, nor train oil, nor cod-liver oil.  What
spring, thou chap with the red whiskers; spring there, Scotchcap; spring,
state, the sweetest of all oils?  Think of that, ye loyal Britons!  we
then can it possibly be, but sperm oil in its unmanufactured, unpolluted
Canaan stood, While Jordan rolled between.  Never did those sweet words sound
at the apparition of Captain Peleg in the act of withdrawing his leg from my
whalemen supply your kings and queens with coronation stuff!
found some salvation, spite of his seven hundred and seventy-seventh lay;
Christmas; and as the short northern day merged into night, we found
I, Captain Peleg must have been drinking something to-day.  At last the anchor
hot latitudes, his flesh being hard as twice-baked biscuit.  Transported to
the Indies, his live blood would not spoil like bottled
with a view of making its interior run well, as they anoint machinery?  Much
ship bound on so long and perilous a voyage --beyond both stormy Capes; a ship
immediate vicinity.  That was my first kick.  Is that the way they heave in
.. <p 109n. >
superfluousness.  But this, his thinness, so to speak, seemed no more the
token of wasting anxieties and cares, than it seemed the indication of any
would fain advance naught but substantiated facts.  But after embattling his
both ran, in starting on the voyage with such a devil for a pilot.  I was
strength, like a revivified Egyptian, this Starbuck seemed prepared to endure
years
.. <p 102 >
do well in all climates.  Looking into his eyes, you seemed to see there the
yet lingering images of those thousand-fold perils he had calmly confronted
your hat in presence of the Czar, and take it off to Queequeg!  No more!  I
years past the whale-ship has been the pioneer in ferreting out the remotest
far-away domestic memories of his young Cape wife and child, tend to bend him
further to those latent influences which, in some honest-hearted men,
proud warrior hunters, who, in quest of the great New England moose, had
restrain the gush of dare-devil daring, so often evinced by others in the more
scoured, bow in hand, the aboriginal forests of the main.  But no longer
snuffing in the trail of the wild beasts of the woodland, Tashtego now
sufficiently proclaimed him an inheritor of the unvitiated blood of those
superstitions of some of the earlier Puritans, and half believed this wild
largeness, but Antarctic in their glittering expression --all this
tawny brawn of his lithe snaky limbs, you would almost have credited the
cheek bones, and black rounding eyes --for an Indian, Oriental in their
red men, which has long supplied the neighboring island of Nantucket with
negro-savage, with a lion-like tread --an Ahasuerus to behold.  Suspended from
Martha's Vineyard, where there still exists the last remnant of a village of
ring-bolts, and would talk of securing the top-sail halyards to them.  In his
the second mate's squire.  Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo, a gigantic,
chief mate, had selected for his squire.  But Queequeg is already known.  Next
headsman each of them belonged.  first of all was queequeg, whom Starbuck, the
having now led for many years the bold life of the fishery in the ships of
owners uncommonly heedful of what manner of men they shipped; daggoo retained
fishery, each mate or headsman, like a Gothic Knight of old, is always
as the harpooneers were flingers of javelins.  And since in this famous
in looking up at him; and a white man standing before him seemed a white flag
come to beg truce of a fortress.  Curious to tell, this imperial negro,
Captain Ahab would probably marshal his forces to descend on the whales,
.. <p 117 >
the present day not one in two of the many thousand men before the mast
employed in the American whale fishery, are Americans born, though pretty
Arctic whalers; and which by the means of many radiating side timbers
fishery as with the American army and military and merchant navies, and the
engineering forces employed in the construction of the American Canals and
     Little Flask was one of the wrought ones; made to clinch tight and last
mantle of humanity over all my kind!  Bear me out in it, thou great democratic
the muscles.  No small number of these whaling seamen belong to the Azores,
the son fitly replacing the infallible arrow of the sires.  To look at the

divided into wrought nails and cut nails; so mankind may be similarly divided.
me out in it, thou just spirit of equality, which hast spread one royal
homewards, they drop them there again.  How it is, there is no telling, but
his made him a little waggish in the matter of whales; he followed these
the Pequod, Isolatoes too, I call such, not acknowledging the common
trouble in order to kill and boil.  This ignorant, unconscious fearlessness of
majestic bulk and mystic ways; and so dead to anything like an apprehension
So utterly lost was he to all sense of reverence for the many marvels of their
Leviathans had personally and hereditarily affronted him; and therefore it
isles of the sea, and all the ends of the earth, accompanying Old Ahab in the
pequod to lay the world's grievances before that bar from which not very many
of them ever come back.  Black Little Pip --he never did --oh, no!  he went
of Tisbury, in Martha's Vineyard.  A short, stout, ruddy young fellow, very
operated as a sort of disinfecting agent.  The third mate was Flask, a native
sent for, to the great quarter-deck on high, he was bid strike in with
numberless mortals who have died exhaling it; and as in time of the cholera,
of first putting his legs into his trowsers, he put his pipe into his mouth.
loading them again to be in readiness anew.  For, when Stubb dressed, instead
He kept a whole row of pipes there ready loaded, stuck in a rack, within easy
.. <p 116 >
nose as without his pipe.
nothing above hatches was seen of Captain Ahab.  The mates regularly relieved
good-humor of his; that thing must have been his pipe.  For, like his nose,
they seemed to be the only commanders of the ship; only they sometimes issued
things, made Stubb such an easygoing, unfearing man, so cheerily trudging off
doubt, like a good sailor, he took it to be a sort of call of the watch to
was there, though hitherto unseen by any eyes not permitted to penetrate into
the now sacred retreat of the cabin.  Every time I ascended to the deck from my
watches below, I instantly gazed aft to mark if any strange face were
visible; for my first vague disquietude touching the unknown captain, now in
exasperated monster.  Long usage had, for this Stubb, converted the jaws of
He would hum over his old rigadig tunes while flank and flank with the most
recurring to me, with a subtle energy I could not have before conceived of.

to smile at the solemn whimsicalities of that outlandish prophet of the
wharves.  But whatever it was of apprehensiveness or uneasiness --to call it so
his part of the boat, as an old stage-driver is about the snugness of his box.
all invited guests.  He was as particular about the comfortable arrangement of
     they came with an indifferent air; and while engaged in the most imminent
cherish such emotions.  For though the harpooneers, with the great body of
the crew, were a far more barbaric, heathenish, and motley set than any of the
tame merchant-ship companies which my previous experiences had made me

     Stubb was the second mate.  He
where the outward bound Nantucket whalers frequently touch to augment their
three chief officers of the ship, the mates, which was most forcibly

.. < chapter xxvii 2  KNIGHTS AND SQUIRES >
sea-officers and men, each in his own different way, could not readily be
horrors of the world, yet cannot withstand those more terrific, because more
.. <p 115 >
me out in it, O God!
running away from it to the southward; and by every degree and minute of
Jackson from the pebbles; who didst hurl him upon a war-horse; who didst
     God!  who didst not refuse to the swart convict, Bunyan, the pale, poetic
things should fail in latently engendering an element in him, which, under
the ship was rushing through the water with a vindictive sort of leaping and

watch, so soon as I levelled my glance towards the taffrail, foreboding
still grey and gloomy enough mornings of the transition, when with a fair wind
liberally provides the brains, the rest of the world as generously supplying
could, nevertheless, still flourish, must indeed have been extreme.  But it
when the fire has overrunningly wasted all the limbs without consuming them,
or taking away one particle from their compacted aged robustness.  His whole
     them tragic graces; if even the most mournful, perchance the most abased,

superstitiousness, as has been said; the courage of this Starbuck which
till it disappeared in his clothing, you saw a slender rod-like mark, lividly
which I had so abandonedly embarked.  But it was especially the aspect of the
our divine equality!  If, then, to meanest mariners, and renegades and
absolute!  The centre and circumference of all democracy!  His omnipresence,
tearingly darts down it, and without wrenching a single twig, peels and
grooves out the bark from top to bottom, ere running off into the soil,
august dignity I treat of, is not the dignity of kings and robes, but that
could certainly say.  By some tacit consent, throughout the voyage little or no
living, and not to be killed by them for theirs; and that hundreds of men had
completely stifle her upbraidings against the permitting stars.  But this
senior, an old Gay-Head Indian among the crew, superstitiously asserted that
not till he was full forty years old did Ahab become that way branded, and
then it came upon him, not in the fury of any mortal fray, but in an
character seem gone; bleeds with keenest anguish at the undraped spectacle
ourselves, so far within us, that it remains intact though all the outer
creature, that over any ignominious blemish in him all his fellows should run
fools, and murderers there may be; men may have mean and meagre faces; but
invested this old Manxman with preternatural powers of discernment.  So that
no white sailor seriously contradicted him when he said that if ever Captain
.. <p 114 >
birth-mark on him from crown to sole.  So powerfully did the whole grim aspect
instance, the complete abasement of poor Starbuck's fortitude, scarce might I
man as you'll find anywhere in this fishery.  But we shall ere long see what
found, and they were every one of them Americans; a Nantucketer, a
of Ahab affect me, and the livid brand which streaked it, that for the first
conflict with seas, or winds, or whales, or any of the ordinary irrational
owing to the barbaric white leg upon which he partly stood.  It had previously
old Gay-Head Indian once; but like his dismasted craft, he shipped another
Islands, to receive the full complement of their crew.  Upon the passage
shivers ran over me.  Reality outran apprehension; Captain Ahab stood upon
deck, and pretty close to the mizen shrouds, there was an auger hole, bored
hairs, and continuing right down one side of his tawny scorched face and neck,
been so killed Starbuck well knew.  What doom was his own father's?  Where, in
far more dangerous comrade than a coward.
firmest fortitude, a determinate unsurrenderable
straight out beyond the ship's ever-pitching prow.  There was an infinity of
Wherefore he had no fancy for lowering for whales after sun-down; nor for
a word he spoke; nor did his officers say aught to him; though by all their
minutest gestures and expressions, they plainly showed the uneasy, if not
painful, consciousness of being under a troubled master-eye.  And not only
that, but moody stricken Ahab stood before them with a crucifixion in his
the singular posture he maintained.  Upon each side of the Pequod's quarter
courage was not a sentiment; but a thing simply useful to him, and always
estimation of the encountered peril, but that an utterly fearless man is a
pivot-hole, or seated upon an ivory stool he had; or heavily walking the
that morning, he was every day visible to the crew; either standing in his
     Aye, aye, said Stubb, the second mate, Starbuck, there, is as careful a

home, nothing but the dead wintry bleakness of the sea had then kept him so
perilous vicissitudes of the fishery.  I will have no man in my boat, said
the air; but, as yet, for all that he said, or perceptibly did, on the at
.. <p 113 >
whaling preparatives needing supervision the mates were fully competent to,
whitish.  It resembled that perpendicular seam sometimes made in the
wilfulness, in the fixed and fearless, forward dedication of that glance.  Not
secluded.  And, by and by, it came to pass, that he was almost continually in
to pile themselves upon.  Nevertheless, ere long, the warm, warbling
youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler, lying in a lonely
with him, or whether it was the scar left by some desperate wound, no one

.. < chapter xxix 2  ENTER AHAB; TO HIM, STUBB >
.. <p 123 >
once; why, the end of it --the foot part --what a small sort of end it is;
cane.  Yes," thinks I,"it was only a playful cudgelling --in fact, only a
say, I was thinking to myself, "what's his leg now, but a cane --a whalebone
steward, tell me that of a morning he always finds the old man's hammock
cursed pyramid -- so confoundedly contradictory was it all, all the while, I
hand, Flask, fifty times more savage to bear than a blow from a cane.  The
the twenty-four; and he don't sleep then.  Didn't that Dough-Boy, the
the fright.  "What am I about?" says I at last.  "And what business is that of
whaleboning that he gave me --not a base kick.  Besides," thinks I,"look at it
between a living thump and a dead thump.  That's what makes a blow from the
that I was in, I somehow seemed to be thinking to myself, that after all, it
his stern to me, bent over, and dragging up a lot of seaweed he had for a
more curious, Flask--you know how curious all dreams are-- through all this rage
my little man, I kicked my leg right off!  And then, presto!  Ahab seemed a
I dreamed he kicked me with it; and when I tried to kick back, upon my soul,
     Next morning Stubb accosted Flask.  Such a
chimney hag.  seeing he wasn't going to stop saying over his "wise Stubb, wise
Stubb," I thought I might as well fall to kicking the pyramid again.  But I
had only just lifted my foot for it, when he roared out, "Stop that kicking!"

he;"let's argue the insult.  Captain Ahab kicked ye, didn't he?" "Yes, he
did," says I --"right here it was." "Very good," says he --"he used his ivory
.. < chapter xxxi 2  QUEEN MAB >
.. <p 127 >
what have you to complain of?  Didn't he kick with right good will?  it wasn't
a common pitch pine leg he kicked with, was it?  No, you were kicked by a
Ahab lurchingly paced the planks.
it an honor.  Listen, wise Stubb.  In old England the greatest lords think it
great glory to be slapped by a queen, and made garter-knights of; but, be
instant the ship shot by the bubble the sinking pipe made.  With slouched hat,
smoking to windward all the while; to windward, and with such nervous
have I been unconsciously toiling, not pleasuring, --aye, and ignorantly
Ahab.  Some moments passed, during which the thick vapor came from his mouth
that pyramid?"  With that, he all of a sudden seemed somehow, in some queer
fashion, to swim off into the air.  I snored; rolled over; and there I was
Khan of the plank, and a king of the sea, and a great lord of Leviathans was
it seems a sort of foolish to me, tho'.  May be, may be.  But it's made a
whereas, if a broad footed farmer kicked me, there's a devilish broad insult.
stern?  Well, the best thing you can do, Flask, is to let that old man alone;
of the tusks of the narwhale.  How could one look at Ahab then, seated on that
and also his pipe.  lighting the pipe at the binnacle lamp and planting the
     When Stubb had departed, Ahab stood for a
wise man of me, Flask.  D'ye see Ahab standing there, sideways looking over the
Flask?  ain't there a small drop

of something queer about that, eh?  a white whale--did ye mark that, man?  Look
ye see a white one, split your lungs for him!  What d'ye think of that now,
that that's bloody on his mind.  But, mum; he comes this way.
.. < chapter xxx 4  THE PIPE >
.. <p 126 >
.. <p 126 >
--How?  how?  how? --but the only way's
deep; but soon we shall be lost in its unshored, harborless immensities.  Ere
me?  I don't stand right on my legs.  Coming afoul of that old man has a sort
somehow.  It flashed like a bleached bone.  What the devil's the matter with
     did kick me, and I didn't observe it, I was so taken all aback with his brow,

more special leviathanic revelations and allusions of all sorts which are to
follow.  It is some systematized exhibition of the whale in his broad genera,
that I would now fain put before you.  Yet is it no easy task.  The
     blazes!  he called me ten times a donkey, and piled a lot of jackasses on

humorousness, hinted that if Captain Ahab was pleased to walk the planks,
Zoology is so much involved as that which is entitled Cetology, says Captain
     for a snooze.  Damn me, it's worth a fellow's while to be born into the
into the inquiry as to the true method of dividing the cetacea into groups
and families....  Utter confusion exists among the historians of this animal

     Ain't that queer, now?  But there's no telling, it's the old game --Here goes
second mate, came up from below, and with a certain unassured, deprecating
research in the unfathomable waters.  Impenetrable veil covering our

the whale, the great Cuvier, and John Hunter, and Lesson, those lights of
ye--there's something special in the wind.  Stand by for it, Flask.  Ahab has
yet of books there are
keep me from catching it.  He's full of riddles; I wonder what he goes into
--worse nor a toothache.  Well, well; I don't know what it is, but the Lord
whales.  many are the men, small and great, old and new, landsmen and seamen,
greatest joke of the dream, Flask.  While I was battering away at the
man, but I was frightened.  Such a phiz!  But, somehow, next moment I was over
him?  Yes, that was the thought coming up in me; but it would be the first
back and strike him, or --what's that? -- down here on my knees and pray for
     It's very queer.  Stop, Stubb; somehow, now, I don't well know whether to go

Author of Miriam Coffin; Olmstead; and the Rev.  T. Cheever.  But to what
ultimate generalizing purpose all these have written, the above cited extracts
will show.  Of the names in this list of whale authors, only those following
.. <p 125 >
begone, or I'll clear the world of thee!  As he said this, Ahab advanced upon
the Greenland or right-whale, he is the best existing authority.  But Scoresby
knew nothing and says nothing of the great sperm whale, compared with which
the Greenland whale is almost unworthy mentioning.  And here be it said, that
the Greenland whale is an usurper upon the throne of the seas.  He is not even
dog, sir.  Then be called ten times a donkey, and a mule, and an ass, and
     No, sir; not yet, said Stubb, emboldened, I will not tamely be called a
invested the then fabulous and utterly unknown sperm-whale, and which
ignorance to this present day still reigns in all but some few scientific
retreats and whale-ports; this usurpation has been every way complete.

I do but less than half like it, sir.  Avast!  gritted Ahab between his set
them the monarch of the seas.  But the time has at last come for a new
proclamation.  This is Charing Cross; hear ye!  good people all, --the
exclamation of the so suddenly scornful old man, Stubb was speechless a
at last. --Down, dog, and kennel!  Starting at the unforeseen concluding
know Ahab then.  Am I a cannon-ball, Stubb, said Ahab, that thou wouldst
attempt.  Those books are Beale's and Bennett's; both in their time surgeons
to English South-Sea whale-ships, and both exact and reliable men.  The
and the insertion into it, of the ivory heel.  Ah!  Stubb, thou did'st not
Scoresby, A. D.
necessarily small; but so far as it goes, it is of excellent quality,
though mostly confined to scientific description.  As yet, however, the sperm
whale, scientific or poetic, lives not complete in any literature.  Far above
knowledge of the cetacea.  A field strewn with thorns.  All these
whales need some sort of popular comprehensive classification, if only an easy
outline one for the present, hereafter to be filled in all its departments by
his wearied mates, seeking repose within six inches of his ivory heel, such
crippled way.  Some considerating touch of humanity was in him; for at times
ere long the old man would emerge, griping at the iron banister, to help his
but with some cautiousness dropt it to its place, for fear of disturbing
various species, or-- in this place at least --to much of any description.  My
object here is simply to project the draught of a systematization of cetology.
.. <p 124 >

bottom of the sea after them; to have one's hands among the unspeakable
foundations, ribs, and very pelvis of the world; this is a fearful thing.
letter-sorter in the Post-office is equal to it.  To grope down into the
hauled upon the forecastle, the sailors flung it not rudely down, as by day,
merely lend new spells and potencies to the outward world.  Inward they turned
with thee?  Behold the hope of him is vain!  But I have swam through
deck sentinelled the slumbers of the band below; and when if a rope was to be
--he would mutter to himself, -- for an old captain like me to be descending
preliminaries to settle.  first: the uncertain, unsettled condition of this
science of Cetology is in the very vestibule attested by the fact, that in
some quarters it still remains a moot point whether a whale be a fish.  In his
It was so with Ahab; only that now, of late, he seemed so much to live in
greybeards will oftenest leave their berths to visit the night-cloaked deck.
from the fish.  But of my own knowledge, I know that down to the year
Old age is always wakeful; as if, the longer linked with life, the less man
sharks and shad, alewives and herring, against Linnaeus's express edict, were
still found dividing the possession of the same seas with the Leviathan.  The
And all these subtle agencies, more and more they wrought on Ahab's texture.
tauntings in Job might well appal me.  Will he (the leviathan) make a covenant
the whales from the waters, he states as follows: On account of their warm
overflowing, redundant days, were as crystal goblets of Persian sherbet,
and icebergs all astern, the Pequod now went rolling through the bright Quito
     Some days elapsed, and ice
united in the opinion that the reasons set forth were altogether insufficient.
zoology and anatomy.  Nevertheless, though of real knowledge there be little,
yours, I should like to know, Mr. Humpback?  Do you want a
However contracted, that definition is the result of expanded meditation.  A
coupled with the first.  Almost any one must have noticed that all the fish
lungs and warm blood; whereas, all other fish are lungless and cold blooded.
the most gamesome and light-hearted of all
the whales, making more gay foam and white water generally than any other of
     not sufficiently distinguish him, since the sperm whale also has a hump,

naturalists; the Greenland Whale of the English Whalemen; the Baliene
sharp ridge.  Let him go.  I know little more of him, nor does anybody else.
him the Elephant and Castle whale.  At any rate, the popular name for him does
the northern American coast.  He has been frequently captured there, and towed
     book i. ( folio), chapter iv. ( hump back). --this whale is often seen on

always at too great a distance to study his countenance.  He is never chased;
he would run away with rope-walks of line.  Prodigies are told of him.  Adieu,
external ones already enumerated.  What then remains?  nothing but to take hold
distinctions a fiftieth part as available to the systematizer as those
Nay; what thing, for example, is there in the Greenland whale's anatomy more
basis.  On this rock every one of the whale-naturalists has split.  But it
present may be numbered: --I., the Grampus; II., the Black Fish; III., the
isolation; as utterly to defy all general methodization formed upon such a
combinations; or, in the case of any one of them detached, such an irregular
humpbacked whale, each has a hump; but there the similitude ceases.  Then,
other and more essential particulars.  Thus, the sperm whale and the
the deep, yet is he not popularly classed among whales.  But possessing all
the grand distinctive features of the leviathan, most naturalists have
kinds, presents.  How then?  The baleen, hump, back-fin, and teeth; these are
them.  BOOK I. ( Folio), CHAPTER V. ( Razor Back). --Of this whale little is
though a smaller one.  His oil is not very valuable.  He has baleen.  He is
Cetology than any other detached bodily distinctions, which the whale, in his
.. <p 136 >
in quantity, and pretty good for light.  By some fishermen his approach is
regarded as premonitory of the advance of the great sperm whale.  BOOK II.
classification of the Leviathan, founded upon either his baleen, or hump, or
allusions to some kind of whales, yet it is in vain to attempt a clear
to be vague or inexpressive, I shall say so, and suggest another.  I do so
now, touching the Black Fish, so called, because blackness is the rule among
rostrated whales, are the fishermen's names for a few sorts.  In connexion
     Of these so called Whalebone whales, there would seem to be several

face.  This whale averages some sixteen or eighteen feet in length.  He is
found in almost all latitudes.  He has a peculiar way of showing his dorsal
hooked fin in swimming, which looks something like a Roman nose.  When not
more profitably employed, the sperm whale hunters sometimes capture the Hyena
to twenty-five feet in length, and of corresponding dimensions round the
bearing for his mark that style upon his back.  From having the baleen in his
like a tall misanthropic spear upon a barren plain; gifted with such
thin, some of these whales will yield you upwards of thirty gallons of oil.
not gregarious.  He seems a whale-hater, as some men are man-haters.  Very
graved on it.  On that Ahaz-dial the shadow often goes back.  The Fin-Back is
peculiar horn being originally mistaken for a peaked nose.  The creature is
some sixteen feet in length, while its horn averages five feet, though some
the surface.  When the sea is moderately calm, and slightly marked with
be visible, this isolated fin will, at times, be seen plainly projecting from
formed by the intertwisting, slanting folds of large wrinkles.  His grand
the idea also, that this same spermaceti was that quickening humor of the
left-handed man.  What precise purpose this ivory horn or lance answers, it
waist.  He swims in herds; he is never regularly hunted, though his oil is
sword-fish and bill-fish; though some sailors tell me that the Narwhale
color, approaching to olive.  His great lips present a cable-like aspect,
.. <p 135 >
.. <p 139 >
accidentally obtained from the stranded fish; in those days spermaceti, it
and finding it sheeted with ice, thrusts his horn up, and so breaks through.
Fin-Back, Tall-Spout, and Long-John, has been seen almost in every sea and is
it is absurd.  Some centuries ago, when the Sperm whale was almost wholly
--Under this head I reckon a monster which, by the various names of
departments of natural history become so repellingly intricate.  The right
surface of the Polar Sea,
example of the Unicornism to be found in almost every kingdom of animated
determinate fact upon which to ground a radical distinction.  It is by endless
sea-unicorn's horn was in ancient days regarded as the great antidote against
poison, and as such, preparations of it brought immense prices.  It was also
agree in all their grand features; nor has there yet been presented a single
Coast, and various other parts of the world, designated by them Right Whale
itself accounted an object of great curiosity.  Black Letter tells me that Sir
Martin Frobisher on his return from that voyage, when Queen Bess did
have long pursued in the Indian ocean, on the Brazil Banks, on the Nor' West
his bold ship sailed down the Thames; when Sir Martin returned from that
voyage, saith Black Letter, on bended knees he presented to her highness a
prodigious long horn of the Narwhale, which for a long period after hung in
he has never yet shown any part of him but his back, which rises in a long
the second species of my Folios?  It is the Great Mysticetus of the English
to a land beast of the unicorn nature.  The Narwhale has a very picturesque,
     whale oil, an inferior article in commerce.  Among the fishermen, he is

is the present Cachalot of the French, and the Pottsfich of the Germans, and
is little of it, and he is seldom hunted.  He is mostly found in the
little is precisely known to the Nantucketer, and nothing at all to the
professed naturalist.  From what I have seen of him at a distance, I should
say that he was about the bigness of a grampus.  He is very savage --a sort of
article commonly known as whalebone or baleen; and the oil specially known as
there like a leech, till the mighty brute is worried to death.  The Killer
is never hunted.  I never heard what sort of oil he has.  Exception
leviathans, being the one first regularly hunted by man.  It yields the
might be taken to the name bestowed upon this whale, on the ground of its
( Right Whale).--In one respect this is the most venerable of the
.. <p 134 >
course of time, the true nature of spermaceti became
     druggists as you nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb.  When, as I opine, in the
mounts the Folio whale's back, and as he swims, he works his passage by
flogging him; as some schoolmasters get along in the world by a similar
process.  Still less is known of the Thrasher than of the Killer.  Both are
outlaws, even in the lawless seas.  thus ends book II. ( Octavo), and begins

light, but only as an ointment and medicament.  It was only to be had from the
     The Huzza Porpoise.  II.  The Algerine Porpoise.  III.  The Mealy-mouthed
Greenland Whale which the first syllable of the word literally expresses.  In
may possibly seem strange, that fishes not commonly exceeding four or five
feet should be marshalled among WHALES --a word, which, in the popular sense,
ill effect, giving its owner something analogous to the aspect of a clumsy
OCTAVO, the Grampus; of the DUODECIMO, the Porpoise.  FOLIOS.  Among these I
whale is --i.  e.  a spouting fish, with a horizontal tail.  BOOK III.
is, that however this one-sided horn may really be used by the Narwhale
     It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do.  Philologically considered,

     them.  I call them thus, because he always swims in hilarious shoals, which
and horizontal tailed fish must be included in this ground-plan of Cetology.
he being the only creature from which that valuable substance, spermaceti, is
most majestic in aspect; and lastly, by far the most valuable in commerce;
the mariner.  Full of fine spirits, they invariably come from the breezy
circumpolar seas.  BOOK II. ( Octavo), CHAPTER IV. ( Killer). --Of this whale
     Razor Back Whale; VI.  the Sulphur Bottom Whale.  BOOK I. ( Folio),

beholding these vivacious fish, then heaven help ye; the spirit of godly
gamesomeness is not in ye.  A well-fed, plump Huzza Porpoise will yield you
one good gallon of good oil.  But the fine and delicate fluid extracted from
his jaws is exceedingly valuable.  It is in request among jewellers and
upon the broad sea keep tossing themselves to heaven like caps in a
     Whale; III.  the Fin Back Whale; IV.  the Hump-backed Whale; V. the

may never have occurred to you that a porpoise spouts.  Indeed, his spout is
so small that it is not very readily discernible.  But the next time you have
creature hitherto identified with the whale by the best informed Nantucketers;
(subdivisible into Chapters), and these shall comprehend them all, both small
pirate.  Very savage.  He is only found, I think, in the Pacific.  He is
somewhat larger than the Huzza Porpoise, but much of the same general make.
Whereas, among spouting fish the tail, though it may be similarly shaped,
times, but never yet saw him captured.  BOOK III. ( Duodecimo), CHAPTER III.
.. <p 133 >
     nor, on the other hand, link with it any fish hitherto authoritatively
from the circumstance that he is chiefly found in the vicinity of that Folio.
hitherto been designated, is that of the fishers -- Right-Whale Porpoise,

figure.  He has no fins on his back (most other porpoises have), he has a
lovely tail, and sentimental Indian eyes of a hazel hue.  But his
mealy-mouth spoils all.  Though his entire back down to his side fins is of a
rotund and jolly girth; indeed, he is of quite a neat and gentleman-like
the bright waist, that line streaks him from stem to stern, with two
whale, the Horned whale, and the Unicorn whale.  He is certainly a curious
watchmakers.
whale, to keep up the supply of cheap oil for domestic employment --as some
would be hard to say.  It does not seemed to be used like the blade of the
.. <p 142 >
a rapid Dinner, Mr. Flask, follows after his predecessors.  But the third
magnitude: --The Bottle-Nose Whale; the Junk Whale; the Pudding-Headed
merchantmen generally; yet, never mind how much like an old Mesopotamian
relieved from some curious restraint; for, tipping all sorts of knowing winks
awhile, and then slightly shaking the main brace, to see whether it be all
right with that important rope, he likewise takes up the old burden, and with
shelf, he goes down rollicking, so far at least as he remains visible from
the deck, reversing all other processions, by bringing up the rear with music.
.. <p 146 >
scuttle.  The second Emir lounges about the rigging
community of interest prevailing among a company, all of whom, high or low,
sultan's step has died away, and Starbuck, the first Emir, has every reason to
     Dinner, Mr. Starbuck, disappears into the cabin.  When the last echo of his
that while in the open air of the deck some officers will, upon provocation,
bear themselves boldly and defyingly enough towards their commander; yet,

dinner in that same commander's cabin, and straightway their inoffensive, not
the following
table; this is marvellous, sometimes most comical.  Wherefore this
heard his menial.  But presently, catching hold of the mizen shrouds, he
complete inattention to the tidings, you would think that moody Ahab had not
then, by a dexterous sleight, pitching his cap up into the mizentop for a
in the rightly regal and intelligent spirit presides over his own private
quarter-boat, has just been taking an observation of the sun; and is now
individual influence for the time; that man's royalty of state transcends
     It is noon; and Dough-Boy, the

czarship which there is no withstanding.  Now, if to this consideration you
superadd the official supremacy of a ship-master, then, by inference, you
therein certainly must have been some touch of mundane grandeur.  But he who
.. < chapter xxxiv 15  THE CABIN-TABLE >
.. <p 145 >
to say deprecatory and humble air towards him, as he sits at the head of the
his own proper turn, each officer waited to be served.  They were as little
featured in the unbodied air!
social arrogance.  With one mind, their intent eyes all fastened upon the old
man's knife, as he carved the chief dish before him.  I do not suppose that
a poor old whale-hunter like him; and, therefore, all outward majestical
observation, even upon so neutral a topic as the weather.  No!  And when
reaching out his knife and fork, between which the slice of beef was locked,
fullest sweep and direct swing, ever forget a hint, incidentally so important
.. <p 145 >
perchance, the knife grazed against the plate; and chewed it noiselessly;
but one of the captain's more inferior subalterns.  Nevertheless, as upon the
encircles an imperial brain;
in the case of Nicholas the Czar, the ringed crown of geographical empire
the dead level of the mass.  Such large virtue lurks in these small things
handful of the Divine Inert, than through their undoubted superiority over
is, that for ever keeps God's true princes of the Empire from the world's
sudden racket in the hold below.  And poor little Flask, he was the youngest
son, and little boy of this weary family party.  His were the shinbones of
the saline beef; his would have been the drumsticks.  For Flask to have
entrenchments, always, in themselves, more or less paltry and base.  This it
degree remained unmanifested; through those forms that same sultanism became
more would he have been able to hold his head up in this honest world;
nevertheless, strange to say, Ahab never forbade him.  And had Flask helped
subserve.  That certain sultanism of his brain, which had otherwise in a good
by no means unobservant of the paramount forms and usages of the sea.  Nor,
the ship denied it to him, on account of its clotting his clear, sunny
complexion; or whether he deemed that, on so long a voyage in such marketless
waters, butter was at a premium, and therefore was not for him, a subaltern;
however it was, Flask, alas!  was a butterless man!  Another thing.  Flask was
of condescension or in terrorem, or otherwise; yet even Captain Ahab was
events hereafter to be detailed, he addressed them in unusual terms, whether
he ever exacted, was implicit, instantaneous obedience; though he required no
of officers, a class unknown of course in any other marine than the
white coral beach, surrounded by his warlike but still deferential cubs.  In
least given to that sort of shallowest assumption; and though the only homage
grandeur not surpassed in any military navy; nay, extorting almost as much
in which you will see the skipper parading his quarter-deck with an elated
.. <p 144 >
that Flask once admitted in private, that ever since he had arisen to the
dignity of an officer, from that moment he had never known what it was to be
all that,
his hunger, as keep it immortal in him.  Peace and satisfaction, thought
family these whalemen may, in some primitive instances, live together; for
will derive the cause of that peculiarity of sea-life just mentioned.
when I was before the mast.  There's the fruits of promotion now; there's the
emir, now seeing himself all alone on the quarter-deck, seems to feel
depend for their profits, not upon fixed wages, but upon their common luck,
altogether, and, then, independent, hilarious little Flask enters King Ahab's
to go aft at dinner-time, and get a peep at Flask through the cabin sky-light,
sitting silly and dumfoundered before awful Ahab.  Now, Ahab and his three
all voyages now or ever made by man), the peculiar perils of it, and the
their departure, taking place in inverted order to their arrival, the canvas
cloth was cleared, or rather was restored to some hurried order by the pallid
Though the long period of a Southern whaling voyage (by far the longest of
its residuary legatees.  They made a sort of temporary servants' hall of the
high and mighty cabin.  In strange contrast to the hardly tolerable constraint
captain's cabin, and sleep in a place indirectly communicating with it.
and merchantmen alike, the mates have their quarters with the captain; and
fellows the harpooneers.  While their masters, the mates, seemed afraid of the
sound of the hinges of their own jaws, the harpooneers chewed their food with
such a relish that there was a report to it.  They dined like lords; they
from the men before the mast, and be in some way distinguished as their
grand political maxim of the sea demands, that he should nominally live apart
and swallowed it, not without circumspection.  For, like the Coronation
abridged.  At present he ranks simply as senior Harpooneer; and as such, is
the previous repast, often the pale Dough-Boy was fain to bring on a great
baron of salt-junk, seemingly quarried out of the solid ox.  And if he were
In those days, the captain's authority was restricted to the navigation and
Fat-Cutter; usage, however, in time made it equivalent to Chief Harpooneer.
back, harpoonwise.  And once Daggoo, seized with a sudden humor, assisted
.. <p 143 >
great empty wooden trencher, while Tashtego, knife in hand, began laying out
the circle preliminary to scalping him.  He was naturally a very nervous,
shuddering sort of little fellow, this bread-faced steward; the progeny of a
and more ago, the command of a whale ship was
the black terrific Ahab, and the periodical tumultuous visitations of these
three savages, Dough-Boy's whole life was one continual lip-quiver.
jammed in point of time.  Starbuck and Stubb both had the start of him; and
     Concerning the officers of the

till all was over.  It was a sight to see Queequeg seated over against
Tashtego, opposing his filed teeth to the Indian's: crosswise to them,
.. < chapter xxxiii 24  THE SPECKSYNDER >
head to the low carlines; at every motion of his colossal limbs, making the
low cabin framework to shake, as when an African elephant goes passenger in a
ship.  But for all this, the great negro was wonderfully abstemious, not to
say dainty.  It seemed hardly possible that by such comparatively small
.. <p 142 >
.. <p 137n. >
unfinished, even as the great Cathedral of Cologne was left, with the crane
snuffed in the sublime life of the worlds.  Not by beef or by bread, are
Cetology.
Dough-Boy almost looked to see whether any marks of teeth lurked in his own
deep of the abounding element of air; and through his dilated nostrils
lean arms.  And when he would hear Tashtego singing out for him to produce
himself,
     hay, and especially as they do not spout, I deny their credentials as
that his bones might be picked, the simple-witted Steward all but shattered
the crockery hanging round him in the pantry, by his sudden fits of the

I am aware that down to the present time, the fish styled Lamatins and
at all tend to tranquillize poor Dough-Boy.  How could he forget that in his
hardly help suspecting them for mere sounds, full of Leviathanism, but
.. <p 132n. >
murderous, convivial indiscretions.  Alas!  Dough-Boy!  hard fares the white
they would ostentatiously sharpen their knives; that grating sound did not
Strength, Cash, and Patience!
     copestone to posterity.  God keep me from ever completing anything.  This
ears, all their martial bones jingling in them at every step, like Moorish
manner of uncouth names.  But I omit them as altogether obsolete; and can
nominally lived there; still, being anything but sedentary in their habits,
scimetars in scabbards.  But, though these barbarians dined in the cabin, and
sleeping-time, when they passed through it to their own peculiar quarters.

belongs to them; and that it is by courtesy alone that anybody else is, at
they were scarcely ever in it except at meal-times, and just before
Whale; the Cape Whale; the Leading Whale; the Cannon Whale; the Scragg Whale;
have kept my word.  But I now leave my cetological System standing thus
house; turning inwards for a moment, only to be turned out the next; and, as
in it.  For when they did enter it, it was something as a street-door enters a
in the cabin was no companionship; socially, Ahab was inaccessible.  Though
nominally included in the census of Christendom, he was still an alien to it.
the lip in eating --an ugly sound enough --so much so, that the trembling
waiter who waits upon cannibals.  Not a napkin should he carry on his arm,
who, as a set, rather incline to the opinion that by rights the ship's cabin
wish I could fist a bit of old-fashioned beef in the forecastle, as I used to
yet they also have the privilege of lounging in the rear.  If Stubb even, who
woods, burying himself in the hollow of a tree, lived out the winter there,
     It was during the more pleasant weather,
after a three, four, or five years' voyage she is drawing nigh home with
is very discreet and scientific here, yet, for all his learned binnacle
deviations, azimuth compass observations, and approximate errors, he
knows very well, Captain Sleet, that he was not so much immersed in those
many broken-down blacksmiths among her crew; I say, that though the Captain
miles, and more, to sail ere reaching her proper cruising ground.  and if,
profound magnetic meditations, as to fail being attracted occasionally towards
magnets; an error ascribable to the horizontal vicinity of the iron in the
errors resulting from what is called the local attraction of all binnacle
seeing what a faithful friend and comforter it must have been, while with
nailed cleats, something as fowls go upstairs in a hen-house.  A few years
crow's-nest; but though he so enlarges upon many of these, and though he
a very different thing.  Now, it was plainly a labor of love for Captain Sleet
ship's planks, and in the Glacier's case, perhaps, to there having been so
that well replenished little case-bottle, so nicely tucked in on one side of
.. <p 155 >
conveniences.  When Captain Sleet in person stood his mast-head in this crow's
tells us, that in the early times of the whale fishery, ere ships were
in which to keep your speaking trumpet, pipe, telescope, and other nautical
ascend into it through a little trap-hatch in the bottom.  On the after side,
being the original inventors and patentees), so likewise should we denominate
of it here, and frankly admit that I kept but sorry guard.  With the problem
of the universe revolving in me, how could I--being left completely to myself
holding that if we call our own children after our own names (we fathers
of the Glacier, which was the name of Captain Sleet's good craft.  He called
obligations to observe all whale-ships' standing orders, Keep your weather
charmingly circumstantial account of the then recently invented crow's-nest
the deck owing to the resistance of the water, but to shoot down upon them is
fisheries any lad with lean brow and hollow eye; given to unseasonable
Voyage among the Icebergs, in quest of the Greenland Whale, and incidentally
in his head.  Beware of such an one, I say; your whales must be seen before
they can be killed; and this sunken-eyed young Platonist will tow you ten
wakes round the world, and never make you one pint of sperm the richer.  Nor
the frozen seas.  In the fire-side narrative of Captain Sleet, entitled A
lookouts of a Greenland whaler are protected from the inclement weather of
deplored that the mast-heads of a southern whale ship are unprovided with
as it is a mere envelope, or additional skin encasing you.  You cannot put a
mast-head of some luckless disappointed whale-ship, and in moody phrase
fire.  But neither great Washington, nor Napoleon, nor Nelson, will answer a
crossing the snowy Alps in winter); so a watch-coat is not so much of a house
ships take those absent-minded young philosophers to task, upbraiding them
widely contrasting serenity of those seductive seas in which we South fishers
.. <p 154 >
unclad body; for as the soul is glued inside
with not feeling sufficient interest in the voyage; half-hinting that they
as cosy as he would standing on a bull's horns.  To be sure, in cold weather
gallant cross-trees.  Here, tossed about by the sea, the beginner feels about
these lads, we've been cruising now hard upon three years, and thou hast not
raised a whale yet.  Whales are scarce as hen's teeth whenever thou art up
small and snug contrivances in which men temporarily isolate themselves.  Your
the far horizon; but lulled into such an opium-like listlessness of vacant,
unconscious reverie is this absent-minded youth by the blending cadence of
waves with thoughts, that at last he loses his identity; takes the mystic
hammock, a hearse, a sentry box, a pulpit, a coach, or any other of those
considerable a portion of the whole term of your natural life, should be so
pervading mankind and nature; and every strange, half-seen, gliding,
months.  And it is much to be deplored that the place to which you devote so
undiscernible form, seems to him the embodiment of those elusive thoughts that
only people the soul by continually flitting through it.  In this enchanted
into unnecessary excitements; you hear of no domestic afflictions; bankrupt
everything resolves you into languor.  For the most part, in this tropic
part of every shore the round globe over.  There is no life in thee, now,
except that rocking life imparted by a gently rolling ship; by her, borrowed
stand, lost in the infinite series of the sea, with nothing ruffled but the
sleep, this dream is on ye, move your foot or hand an inch; slip your hold
deep, as if the masts were gigantic stilts, while beneath you and between
There you stand, a hundred feet above the silent decks, striding along the
half-throttled shriek you drop through that transparent air into the summer
sea, no more to rise for ever.  Heed it well, ye Pantheists!
pleasant the mast-head; nay, to a dreamy meditative man it is delightful.
at sea.  The three mast-heads are kept manned from sun-rise to sun-set; the
.. <p 153 >
ago this same plan was adopted by the Bay whalemen of New Zealand, who, upon
was not a great while after the affair of the pipe, that one morning shortly
mittened fingers and hooded head he was studying the mathematics aloft there
lofty spars along the sea-coast, to which the look-outs ascended by means of
resting in the top to have a chat with Queequeg, or any one else off duty whom
steady, ivory stride was heard, as to and fro he paced his old rounds, upon
Macy, the sole historian of Nantucket, stands accountable.  The worthy Obed
any respect the mast-head standers of the land with those of the sea; but
too, upon that ribbed
     shoals and what rocks must be shunned.  It may seem unwarrantable to couple in

foot-prints of his one unsleeping, ever-pacing thought.  But on the occasion in
left a deeper mark.  And, so full of his thought was Ahab, that at every
modern ship sing out for a sail, or a whale just bearing in sight.  In Saint
progenitors, the builders of Babel, must doubtless, by their tower, have
single hail from below, however madly invoked to befriend by their counsels
mount to the apex, and sing out for new stars; even as the look-outs of a
Trafalgar Square; and ever when most obscured by that London smoke, token is
Admiral Nelson, also, on a capstan of gun-metal, stands his mast-head in
Blanc, or Louis the Devil.  Great Washington, too, stands high aloft on his
any strange sight.  There is Napoleon; who, upon the top of the column of
wore on; --Ahab now shut up within his cabin; anon, pacing the deck, with the
same intense bigotry of purpose in his aspect.  It drew near the close of day.
are still entirely incompetent to the business of singing out upon discovering
     Of modern standers-of-mast-heads we have but a lifeless set; mere stone,
the auger-hole there, and with one hand grasping a shroud, he ordered Starbuck

but valiantly facing everything out to the last, literally died at his post.
never given on ship-board except in some extraordinary case.  Send everybody
his life on its summit, hoisting his food from the ground with a tackle; in
.. <p 152 >
were eyeing him, for he looked not unlike the weather horizon when a storm is
intended to rear the loftiest mast-head in all Asia, or Africa either; yet
Stylites, the famous Christian hermit of old times, who built him a lofty
half-slouched hat he continued to pace, unmindful of the wondering whispering
question, those dents looked deeper, even as his nervous step that morning
soul were nigh him resumed his heavy turns upon the deck.  With bent head and
summoned them there for the purpose of witnessing a pedestrian feat.  But this
ejaculates: -- Roll on, thou deep and dark blue ocean, roll!  Ten thousand
astronomical purposes: a theory singularly supported by the peculiar
of clubbed voices.
general belief among archaeologists, that the first pyramids were founded for
Egyptians were a nation of mast-head standers, is an assertion based upon the
(ere the final truck was put to it) as that great stone mast of theirs may be
animation into which his unexpected question had so magnetically thrown them.
anything empty in her --say, an empty vial even --then, her mast-heads are kept
coming up, Ahab, after rapidly glancing over the bulwarks, and then darting
it ye pull to, men?  A dead whale or a stove boat!  More and more strangely
because, in all my researches, I find none prior to them.  For though their
marvelling how it was that they themselves became so excited at such
seemingly purposeless questions.  But, they were all eagerness again, as Ahab,
shout; while the mariners began to gaze curiously at each other, as if
more.  Now, as the business of standing mast-heads, ashore or afloat, is a
uniform turn that he made, now at the main-mast and now at the binnacle, you
you, ye ship-owners of Nantucket!  Beware of enlisting in your vigilant
young Platonists have a notion that their vision is imperfect; they are
Receiving the top-maul from Starbuck, he advanced towards the main-mast with
--long swallows, men; 'tis hot as Satan's hoof.  So, so; it goes round
excellently.  It spiralizes in ye; forks out at the serpent-snapping eye.
humming to himself, producing a sound so strangely muffled and inarticulate
ounce, my boys!  Huzza!  huzza!  cried the seamen, as with swinging
     Drink and pass!  he cried, handing the heavy charged flagon to the nearest
seaman.  The crew alone now drink.  Round with it, round!  Short draughts
stand there with your irons; and ye, stout mariners, ring me in, that I may

this capstan; and ye mates, flank me with your lances; and ye harpooneers,
Hand it me.  Why, now, this pewter had run brimming again, wer't not thou St.
meet the eye of their leader, ere he rushes on at their head in the trail of
before me.  Well
But those wild eyes met his, as the bloodshot eyes of the prairie wolves
it with guineas, one to every three parts of an inch; then, let me tell thee,
three level, radiating lances at their crossed centre; while so doing,
suddenly and nervously twitched them; meanwhile, glancing intently from
     with their harpoons in their hands, while his three mates stood at his side

The three mates quailed before his strong, sustained, and mystic aspect.
accountants have computed their great counting-house the globe, by girdling
Receiving the brimming pewter, and turning to the harpooneers, he ordered
downright.  In vain!  cried Ahab; but, maybe, 'tis well.  For did ye three
but once take the full-forced shock, then mine own electric thing, that had
fiery emotion accumulated within the Leyden jar of his own magnetic life.
being, these still drive us on.  The measure!  the measure!  cried Ahab.
perhaps expired from out me.  Perchance, too, it would have dropped ye dead.
gentlemen and noblemen, my valiant harpooneers.  Disdain the task?  What, when
the great Pope washes the feet of beggars, using his tiara for ewer?  Oh, my
sweet cardinals!  your own condescension, that shall bend ye to it.  I do not
For with little external to constrain us, the innermost necessities in our
away; the winds blew on; the sails filled out; the ship heaved and rolled as
eyes lighted up with the stubbornness of life; the subterranean laugh died
iron part of their harpoons, some three feet long, held, barbs up, before him.
masts, as for a moment their hearts sank in.  For again Starbuck's downcast
.. <p 163 >
the goblet end?  Turn up the socket!  So, so; now, ye cup-bearers, advance.
The irons!  take them; hold them while I fill!  Forthwith, slowly going from
Starbuck, lowly.  But in his joy at the enchanted, tacit acquiescence of the
oppose me now, without rebellion.  God keep me! --keep us all!  murmured
     when every foremast-hand has clutched a whetstone?  Ah!  constrainings seize

league.  Ha!  Starbuck!  but the deed is done!  Yon ratifying sun now waits to
sit upon it.  Drink, ye harpooneers!  drink and swear, ye men that man the
a fin; no wondrous feat for Starbuck.  What is it more?  From this one poor
sapling cannot, Starbuck!  And what is it?  Reckon it. 'Tis but to help strike
and to cries and maledictions against the white whale, the spirits
in this matter of the whale?  See Stubb!  he laughs!  See yonder Chilian!  he
three cup-bearers to my three pagan kinsmen there --yon three most honorable
shivered.  Once more, and finally, the replenished pewter went the rounds
life they feel!  The crew, man, the crew!  Are they not one and all with Ahab,
breathing pictures painted by the sun.  The Pagan leopards --the unrecking and
men from whom warm words are small indignity.  I meant not to incense thee.
look ye, Starbuck, what is said in heat, that thing unsays itself.  There are
is even that fair play.  Who's over me?  Truth hath no confines.  Take off
play herein, jealousy presiding over all creations.  But not my master, man,
That inscrutable thing is chiefly what I hate; and be the white whale agent,
see in him outrageous strength, with an inscrutable malice sinewing it.
pale waters, paler cheeks, where'er I sail.  The envious billows sidelong
swell to whelm my track; let them; but first I pass.  Yonder, by the
the mask!  How can the prisoner reach outside except by thrusting through the
.. <p 162 >
forth the mouldings of its features from behind the unreasoning mask.  If man
i, the wearer, see not its far flashings; but darkly feel that i wear that,
moose; Aye, aye!  it was that accursed white whale that razeed me; made a
that I wear?  this Iron Crown of Lombardy.  Yet is it bright with many a gem;
act, the undoubted deed --there, some unknown but still reasoning thing puts
the solid metal; aye, steel skull, mine; the sort that needs no helmet in the
most brain-battering fight!  Dry heat upon my brow?  Oh!  time was, when as the
     Vengeance on a dumb brute!  cried Starbuck, that simply smote thee from

enjoy.  Gifted with the high perception, I lack the low, enjoying power;
damned, most subtly and most malignantly!  damned in the midst of Paradise!
     that my vengeance will fetch a great premium here!  He smites his chest,

.. <p 166 >
Dick that took off thy leg?  Who told thee that?  cried Ahab; then pausing,
the least; but my one cogged circle fits into all their various wheels, and
stand before me; and I their match.  Oh, hard!  that to fire others, the
done!  Let me touch the axis.  So saying, with extended arm, he grasped the
all the wonder.  Captain Ahab, I have heard of Moby Dick--but it was not Moby
     requirest a little lower layer.  If money's to be the measurer, man, and the
itself!  The prophecy was that I should be dismembered; and--Aye!  I lost this
leg.  I now prophesy that I will dismember my dismemberer.  Now, then, be the
prophet and the fulfiller one.  That's more than ye, ye great gods, ever
they revolve.  Or, if you will, like so many ant-hills of powder, they all

Nantucket market.  Nantucket market!  Hoot!  But come closer, Starbuck; thou
down, and I am up again; but ye have run and hidden.  Come forth from behind
were simultaneously quaffed down with a hiss.  Starbuck paled, and turned, and
to ye; come and see if ye can swerve me.  Swerve me?  ye cannot swerve me,
if thou gettest it, Captain Ahab?  it will not fetch thee much in our
crooked jaw, and for the jaws of Death too, Captain Ahab, if it fairly comes
     chase the white whale?  art not game for Moby Dick?  I am game for his
torrents' beds, unerringly I rush!  Naught's an obstacle, naught's an angle
to the iron way!

for the White Whale; a sharp lance for Moby Dick!  God bless ye, he seemed
harpooneers and seamen, running closer to the excited old man: A sharp eye
flames before I give him up.  And this is what ye have shipped for, men!  to
lubber of me for ever and a day!  Then tossing both arms, with measureless
madman!  Insufferable sting, that sanity should ground arms on such a field!
tarpaulins they hailed the act of nailing the gold to the mast.  It's a
     Aye, Starbuck; aye, my hearties all round; it was Moby Dick that dismasted

.. <p 167 >
I must help him to it.  Will I, nill I, the ineffable thing has tied me to
him; tows me with a cable I have no knife to cut.  Horrible old man!  Who's
lords it over all below!  Oh!  I plainly see my miserable office, --to obey,
over him, he cries; --aye, he would be a democrat to all above; look, how he
rebelling; and worse yet, to hate with touch of pity!  For in his eyes I read
goes down?  said the Gay-Header deliberately.  And has he a curious spout,
recollection.  Captain Ahab, said Tashtego, that white whale must be the
small gold-fish has its glassy globe.  His heaven-insulting purpose, God may
that dazzlingly confounds. 'Tis iron --that I know--not gold. 'Tis split, too
wedge aside.  I would up heart, were it not like lead.  But my whole clock's
Dick ye have seen --Moby Dick-- Moby Dick!  Captain Ahab, said Starbuck, who,
fan-tails like a split jib in a squall.  Death and devils!  men, it is Moby
heathen crew that have small touch of human mothers in them!  Whelped
somewhere by the sharkish sea.  The white whale is their demigorgon.  Hark!
the infernal orgies!  that revelry is forward!  mark the unfaltering silence
Nantucket wool after the great annual sheep-shearing; aye, Tashtego, and he
Queequeg, the harpoons lie all twisted and wrenched in him; aye, Daggoo, his
he broods within his sternward cabin, builded over the dead water of the
the top-maul; a white whale.  Skin your eyes for him, men; look sharp for
though uncorking a bottle -- like him--him-- Corkscrew!  cried Ahab, aye,
too, said Daggoo, very bushy, even for a parmacetty, and mighty quick,
untutored things are forced to feed --Oh, life! 'tis now that I do feel the
wake, and further on, hunted by its wolfish gurglings.  The long howl thrills
tide flow wide.  The hated whale has the round watery world to swim in, as the
well done; almost drained.  That way it went, this way it comes.  Hand it me
.. <p 160 >
were.  I laugh and hoot at ye, ye cricket-players, ye pugilists, ye deaf
your cotton bags!  I have no long gun to reach ye.  Come, Ahab's compliments
you will yet see that-- Ha!  boy, come back?  bad pennies come not sooner.
all predestinated.  I heard not all his talk with Starbuck; but to my poor
How the three pines shake!  Pines are the hardest sort of tree to live when
Steady, helmsman!  steady.  This is the sort of weather when brave hearts snap
and say to himself, how d'ye do?  Partners!  I must have partners!  Sicilian
ashore, and keeled hulls split at sea.  Our captain has his birth-mark; look
black.  Daggoo What of that?  Who's afraid of black's afraid of me!  I'm
captain's commanded. -- 1st Nantucket Sailor Oh, boys, don't be sentimental;
gay and fleeting As bubbles that swim, on the beaker's brim, And break on the
might readily have prophesied it --for when I clapped my eye upon his skull I
old grudge makes me touchy. ( Advancing.) Aye, harpooneer, thy race is the
We are the lads to hunt him up his whale!  All Aye!  aye!  Old Manx Sailor
quarried out of it!  Spanish Sailor ( Aside.) He wants to bully, ah! --the
maty; it's too springy to my taste.  I'm used to ice-floors.  I'm sorry to
his orders, mind ye that.  I heard old Ahab tell him he must always kill a
right into it!  English Sailor Blood!  but that old man's a grand old cove!
storm-lashed guns, on which the sea-salt cakes! 4th Nantucket Sailor He has
afraid than the isle fort at Cattegat, put there to fight the Baltic with
.. <p 173 >
brawlers!  Humph!  Belfast Sailor A row!  arrah a row!  The Virgin be blessed,
a row!  Plunge in with ye!  English Sailor Fair play!  Snatch the Spaniard's
knife!  A ring, a ring!  Old Manx Sailor Ready formed.  There!  the ringed
horizon.  In that ring Cain struck Abel.  Sweet work, right work!  No?  Why
then, God, mad'st thou the ring?  Mate's Voice from the Quarter Deck Hands by
the halyards!  in top-gallant sails!  Stand by to reef topsails!  All The
done!  The mate there holds ye to it stiffly.  He's no more
Sailor Crack, crack, old ship!  so long as thou crackest, thou holdest!  Well
are just crossing swords, pell-mell they'll go lunging presently.  Danish
goes the jib-stay!  Blang-whang!  God!  Duck lower, Pip, here comes the royal
thine, mannikin!  White skin, white liver!  Spanish Sailor ( meeting him)
mat, but the soft soil has slid!  I saw thee woven in the wood, my mat!
--the Heeva-Heeva!  Ah!  low veiled, high palmed Tahiti!  I still rest me on thy
--flutterings!  lip!  heart!  hip!  all graze: unceasing touch and go!  not
undeniable dark side of mankind --devilish dark at that.  No offence.  Daggoo
.. <p 175 >
There's naught so sweet on earth --heaven may not match it! --as those swift
all the waves were women, then I'd go drown, and chassee with them evermore!
jingle all over like my tambourine --that anaconda of an old man swore 'em in
to hunt him!  Oh, thou big white God aloft there somewhere in yon darkness,
.. <p 172 >
     Meantime the sky darkens -- the wind rises.)
filliping to others.  We sing; they sleep --aye, lie down there, like
.. <p 175 >

--give us a whiff, Tash. ( They cease dancing, and gather in clusters.
had gone up with the rest; my oath had been welded with theirs; and
stronger I shouted, and more did I hammer and clinch my oath, because of the
Sailor Spell oh! --whew!  this is worse than pulling after whales in a calm
ballroom of it.  Dance on, lads, you're young; I was once. 3d Nantucket
murderous monster against whom I and all the others had taken our oaths of
violence and revenge.  For some time past, though at intervals only, the
unaccompanied, secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly
night-women, that beat head-winds round corners.  O Christ!  to think of the
dance over your grave, I will --that's the bitterest threat of your
the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given battle to him, was
small indeed.  For, owing to the large number of whale-cruisers; the
Sailor Rattle thy teeth, then, and pound away; make a pagoda of thyself.
Jinglers, you say? --there goes another, dropped off; I pound it so.  China
eight, thou Pip!  thou blackling!  and let me call the watch.  I've the sort
as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth or more on a stretch, to encounter
separate voyage; the irregularity of the times of sailing from home; all
these, with other circumstances, direct and indirect, long obstructed
     sleep or lie among the coils of rigging.  Oaths a-plenty.) Azore

never fail!  While the bold harpooneer is striking the whale!  Mate's Voice
that several vessels reported to have encountered, at such or such a time, or
on such or such a meridian, a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and
.. <p 171 >
     tambourine up the scuttle.)
say, that the whale in question must have been no other than moby Dick.  Yet
fine whales, Hand, boys, over hand!  So, be cheery, my lads!  may your hearts
unfrequent instances of great ferocity, cunning, and malice in the monster

     comes the music; now for it!  Azore Sailor ( Ascending, and pitching the
to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred, more, as it were, to the perils of
the Sperm Whale fishery at large, than to the individual cause.  In that way,

grasshopper!  Long-Island Sailor Well, well, ye sulkies, there's plenty more
Whale, by chance caught sight of him; in the beginning of the thing they had
Sailor Aye; girls and a green! --then I'll hop with ye; yea, turn
any other whale of that species.  But at length, such calamities did ensue in
shifted to any other soil, and here there's none but the crew's cursed clay.
or devouring amputations --but fatal to the last degree of fatality; those
it will, I'll go to it laughing.  Such a waggish leering as lurks in all your
long in working. 5th Nantucket Sailor What's that I saw--lightning?  Yes.
Throw yourselves!  Legs!  Legs!  Iceland Sailor I don't like your floor,
these assaults --not restricted to sprained wrists and ancles, broken limbs,
true histories of these deadly encounters.  For not only do fabulous rumors
     sleepy.) Don't know where it is.  French Sailor Beat thy belly, then, and

in that of terra firma, wild rumors abound, wherever there is any adequate
reality for them to cling to.  And as the sea surpasses the land in this
matter, so the whale fishery surpasses every other sort of maritime life, in
the wonderfulness and fearfulness of the
     French Sailor Hist, boys!  let's have a jig or two before we ride to anchor

unexempt from that ignorance and superstitiousness hereditary to all sailors;
but of all sailors, they are by all odds the most directly brought into
'em through it.  Tell 'em to avast dreaming of their lasses.  Tell 'em it's
they not only eye its greatest marvels, but, hand to jaw, give battle to
them.  Alone, in such remotest waters, that though you sailed a thousand
.. < chapter xli 9  MOBY DICK >
.. <p 170 >
latitudes and longitudes, pursuing too such a calling as he does, the whaleman
is wrapped by influences all tending to make his fancy pregnant with many a
mighty birth.  No wonder, then, that ever gathering volume from the mere
transit over the widest watery spaces, the outblown rumors of the White Whale
     scuttle,)  Star--bo--l-e-e-n-s, a-h-o-y!  Eight bells there below!  Tumble

invested Moby Dick with new terrors unborrowed from anything that visibly
appears.  So that in many cases such a panic did he finally strike, that few
who by those rumors, at least, had heard of the White Whale, few of those
hunters were willing to encounter the perils of his jaw.  But there were still
a single news-telling sail of any sort; the inordinate length of each
individualizing tidings concerning Moby Dick.  It was hardly to be doubted,
from all other species of the leviathan, died out of the minds of the whalemen
as of late the Sperm Whale fishery had been marked by various and not
     follow.) Our captain stood upon the deck, A spy-glass in his hand, A
courageous enough in offering battle to the Greenland or Right whale, would
perhaps --either from professional inexperience, or incompetency, or timidity,
decline a contest with the Sperm Whale; at any rate, there are plenty of
whalemen, especially among those whaling nations not sailing under the

whose sole knowledge of the leviathan is restricted to the ignoble monster
primitively pursued in the North; seated on their hatches, these men will
come what will, one comfort's always left -- that unfailing comfort is, it's
tales of
     lying in various attitudes, all singing in chorus.) Farewell and

Whale anywhere more feelingly comprehended, than on board of those prows which
legendary times thrown its shadow before it; we find some book naturalists
lirra, skirra!  Oh-- We'll drink to-night with hearts as light, To love, as
     rises and discovers the watch standing, lounging, leaning, and

ferocious as continually to be athirst for human blood.  Nor even down to so
harpooneers, I dare say, gay as a frigate's pennant, and so am I--fa, la!
     ( Foresail

against the rocks with such violence as to cause instantaneous death.  And
at home doing now?  Crying its eyes out? --Giving a party to the last arrived
however the general experiences in the fishery may amend such reports as
terrors, and often in the precipitancy of their flight dash themselves
.. <p 169 >
and portents concerning him, not a few of the fishermen recalled, in reference
stem him.  And as if the now tested reality of his might had in former
these; yet in their full terribleness, even to the bloodthirsty item of
aye, sir, just through with this job --coming.
other leviathans might be hopefully pursued, yet to chase and point lance at
such an apparition as the Sperm Whale was not for mortal man.  That to attempt
vocation, revived in the minds of the hunters.  So that overawed by the rumors
yard!  It's worse than being in the whirled woods, the last day of the year;
late a time as Cuvier's, were these or almost similar impressions effaced.
to Moby Dick, the earlier days of the Sperm Whale fishery, when it was
were, who even in the face of these things were ready to give chase to Moby
wild rumors of all sorts fail to exaggerate, and still the more horrify the
without superstitious accompaniments, were sufficiently hardy not to flee
your white squalls, they.  White squalls?  white whale, shirr!
yonder, boys, there's another in the sky --lurid-like, ye see, all else pitch
Sperm Whale when beneath the surface remain, in great part, unaccountable to
contradictory speculations regarding them, especially concerning the mystic
essence sits in bearded state; an antique buried beneath antiquities, and
fantastic towers of man's upper earth, his root of grandeur, his whole awful
his pursuers; and from time to time have originated the most curious and
--however grand and wonderful, now quit it; --and take your way, ye nobler,
sadder souls, to those vast Roman halls of Thermes; where far beneath the
souls!  question that proud, sad king!  A family likeness!  aye, he did beget
popularize profundities, and all truth is profound.  Winding far down from
he had sanely brought to bear upon any one reasonable object.  This is much;
Ahab, to that one end, did now possess a thousand fold more potency than ever
now long dissemble; in some sort, did still.  But that thing of his
dissembling was only subject to his perceptibility, not to his will
cannon upon its own mad mark; so that far from having lost his strength,
throned on torsoes!  So with a broken throne, the great gods mock that
otherwise than but naturally grieved, and that to the quick, with the
had perished.  That before living agent, now became the living instrument.  If
behind; so in that broad madness, not one jot of his great natural intellect
too, all the added moodiness which always afterwards, to the very day of
sailing in the pequod on the present voyage, sat brooding on his brow.  Nor is
feline thing.  When you think it fled, it may have but become transfigured
voyage, on account of such dark symptoms, the calculating people of that
prudent isle were inclined to
collected front, however pale, and issued his calm orders once again; and
den into the blessed light and air; even then, when he bore that firm,
qualified and set on edge, for a pursuit so full of rage and wildness as the
left behind him with the Cape Horn swells, and he came forth from his dark
unrelenting fangs of some incurable idea; such an one, could he be found,
when with ivory leg he stepped ashore at last, no Nantucketer thought him
he swung to the mad rockings of the gales.  And, when running into more
fast, even there, as he sailed, raving in his hammock.  In a strait-jacket,
That it was only then, on the homeward voyage, after the encounter, that the
ahab and anguish lay stretched together in one hammock, rounding in mid
keyed in him, Ahab had purposely sailed upon the present voyage with the
one only and all-engrossing object of hunting the White Whale.  Had any one of
animosity; and when he received the stroke that tore him, he probably but
then, how soon would their aghast and righteous souls have wrenched the ship
from such a fiendish man!  They were bent on profitable cruises, the profit
to be counted down in dollars from the mint.  He was intent on an audacious,
immitigable, and supernatural revenge.  Here, then, was this grey-headed,
ungodly old man, chasing with curses a Job's whale round the world, at the
knife in hand, he had but given loose to a sudden, passionate, corporal
It is not probable that this monomania in him took its instant rise at the
and recklessness in Stubb, and the pervading mediocrity in Flask.  Such a
crew, so officered, seemed specially picked and packed by some infernal
every apparent symptom of alarm, he had several times been known to turn
fatality to help him to his monomaniac revenge.  How it was that they so
.. <p 182 >
as much their insufferable foe as his; how all this came to be --what the
of harpoons darted in the Greenland seas.  Nor is it to be gainsaid, that in
his hot heart's shell upon it.
some dim, unsuspected way, he might have seemed the gliding great demon of
the seas of life, --all this to explain, would be to dive deeper than Ishmael
personified, and made practically assailable in Moby Dick.  He piled upon the
were possessed, that at times his hate seemed almost theirs; the White Whale
most maddens and torments; all that stirs up the lees of things; all truth
abhorred white whale, he pitted himself, all mutilated, against it.  All that
and worship it like them; but deliriously transferring its idea to the
Ophites of the east reverenced in their statue devil; -- Ahab did not fall down
while yet all a-rush to encounter the whale, could see naught in that brute
but the deadliest ill.
even the modern Christians ascribe one-half of the worlds; which the ancient
identify with him, not only all his bodily woes, but all his intellectual and
all the more fell for that in his frantic morbidness he at last came to
fatal encounter, Ahab had cherished a wild vindictiveness against the whale,
Turk, no hired Venetian or Malay, could have smote him with more seeming
reaped away ahab's leg, as a mower a blade of grass in the field.  No turbaned
not but occasionally awaken in any man's soul some alarm, there was another
thought, or rather vague, nameless horror concerning him, which at times by
Arkansas duellist at his foe, blindly seeking with a six inch blade to reach
well nigh ineffable was it, that I almost despair of putting it in a
comprehensible form.  It was the whiteness of the whale that above all things
seizing the line-knife from his broken prow, had dashed at the whale, as an
dim, random way, explain myself I must, else all these chapters might be
around him, and oars and men both whirling in the eddies; one captain,
chewed boats, and the sinking limbs of torn comrades, they swam out of the
japonicas, and pearls; and though various nations have in some way recognised
of Pegu placing the title Lord of the White Elephants above all their other
of inflamed, distracted fury the
having been inflicted by an unintelligent agent.  Judge, then, to what pitches
of spears should be planted in his flanks, he would still swim away unharmed;
instances, such seemed the White Whale's infernal aforethought of ferocity,
little bruited ashore, were by no means unusual in the fishery; yet, in most
the same imperial hue; and though this pre-eminence in it applies to the
fatalities had attended his chase.  But though similar disasters, however
the same snow-white quadruped in the royal standard; and the Hanoverian flag
around suddenly, and, bearing down upon them, either stave their boats to
or right-mindedness in Starbuck, the invulnerable jollity of indifference
assaults.  More than all, his treacherous retreats struck more of dismay than
brides, the benignity of age; though among the Red Men of America the giving
knowing that after repeated, intrepid assaults, the White Whale had escaped
of the white belt of wampum was the deepest pledge of honor; though in many
according to specific accounts, he had over and over again evinced in his

has been made the symbol of the divine spotlessness and power; by the Persian
more wonderful story of the Arethusa fountain near Syracuse (whose waters
and spotted, and marbled with the same shrouded hue, that, in the end, he had
high, pyramidical white hump.  These were his prominent features; the tokens
enough in the earthly make and incontestable character of the monster to
snow-white bull; and though to the noble Iroquois, the midwinter sacrifice
of the sacred White Dog was by far the holiest festival of their theology,
steeds; though even in the higher mysteries of the most august religions it
that spotless, faithful creature being held the purest envoy they could send
     or if indeed he should ever be made to spout thick

cassock; and though among the holy pomps of the Romish faith, white is
specially employed in the celebration of the Passion of our Lord; though in
the Vision of St.  John, white robes are given to the redeemed, and the
problem to man, was never a problem to the whale.  So that here, in the real
but immortal (for immortality is but ubiquity in time); that though groves
alive; it cannot be much matter of surprise that some whalemen should go
to the Great Spirit with the annual tidings of their own fidelity; and though
same hue is made the emblem of many touching, noble things --the innocence of
lake in which the wrecks of ships floated up to the surface); and that still
inland Strello mountain in Portugal (near whose top there was said to be a
tribe; and though, besides all this, whiteness has been
it has been believed by some whalemen, that the nor' west passage, so long a
whither leads his shaft by the ever shifting, muffled sound of his pick?  Who
known to both American and English whale-ships, and as well a thing placed
whiteness it is which imparts such an abhorrent mildness, even
would seem the very man to dart his iron and lift his lance against the most
ye, ye young exiled royalties; and from your grim sire only will the old
Most famous in our Western annals and Indian traditions is that of the White
Mountains and the Alleghanies.  At their flaming head he westward trooped it
Steed of the Prairies; a magnificent milk-white charger, large-eyed,
break the fixed trance of whiteness.  Not so the sailor, beholding the
man can follow another into these halls.  And though, doubtless, some at least
scenery of the Antarctic seas; where at times, by some infernal trick of
monuments and splintered crosses.  But thou sayest, methinks this white-lead
shipwrecked, instead of rainbows speaking hope and solace to his misery,
surrenderest to a hypo, Ishmael.  Tell me, why this strong young colt, foaled
backwoodsman of the West, who with comparative indifference views an
be to lose oneself in such inhuman solitudes.  Much the same is it with the
chance clue to conduct us to the hidden cause we seek?  Let us try.  But in a
this mere aspect of all-pervading whiteness makes him more strangely hideous
phrensies of affright?  There is no remembrance in him of any gorings of wild
such vast altitudes, and the natural conceit of what a fearfulness it would
perhaps, in the mere fancying of the eternal frosted desolateness reigning at
continual sight of the snow-howdahed Andes conveys naught of dread, except,
perils; for what knows he, this New England colt, of the black bisons of
either wholly or in great part stripped of all direct associations calculated
not so much the fear of striking hidden rocks, as the fear of that hideous
is under him again.  Yet where is the mariner who will tell thee, Sir, it was
thousands of miles from Oregon, still when he smells that savage musk, the
some of those instances wherein this thing of whiteness --though for the time
--as if from encircling headlands shoals of combed white bears were swimming
the muffled rollings of a milky sea; the bleak rustlings of the festooned
gracious thing he will by whiteness, no man can deny that in its profoundest
his hammock to view his ship sailing through a midnight sea of milky whiteness
the frightened colt!  Though neither knows where lie the nameless things of
unbounded prairie sheeted with driven snow, no shadow of tree or twig to
faculties; but under precisely similar circumstances, let him be called from
views what seems a boundless church-yard grinning upon him with its lean ice
not yet have we solved the incantation of this whiteness, and learned why it
especially when exhibited under any form at all approaching to muteness or
awfulness to another mind almost solely consists in this one phenomenon,
things, nay, the very veil of the Christian's Deity; and yet should be as it
cheerful greenness of complete decay; spreads over her broken ramparts the
Pizarro, this whiteness keeps her ruins for ever new; admits not the
that by its indefiniteness it shadows forth the heartless voids and
immensities of the universe, and thus stabs us from behind with the thought
veil; and there is a higher horror in this whiteness of her woe.  Old as
that as in essence whiteness is not so much a color as the visible absence of
and her suburban avenues of house-walls lying over upon each other, as a
cope-stones, and crosses all adroop (like canted yards of anchored fleets);
landscape of snows --a colorless, all-color of atheism from which we shrink?
altogether, the remembrance of her cathedral-toppling earthquakes; nor the
other world, as of mortal trepidation here.  And from that pallor of the dead,
sunset skies and woods; yea, and the gilded velvets of butterflies, and the
Europe, does the tall pale man of the Hartz forests, whose changeless
addressed to the fancy, why, in reading the old fairy tales of Central
deified Nature absolutely paints like the harlot, whose allurements cover
nothing but the charnel-house within; and when we proceed further, and
over the fancy, while that of the Yellow Sea lulls us with mortal thoughts of
.. <p 191 >
.. <p 194 >
experience of all mankind fail to bear witness to the supernaturalism of this
latitudes and longitudes, does the name of the White Sea exert such a
roses, with its own blank tinge --pondering all this, the palsied universe lies
full of a soft, dewy, distant dreaminess?  Or why, irrespective of all
Bloody?  And those sublimer towers, the White Mountains of New Hampshire,
around him.  And of all these things the Albino whale was the symbol.  Wonder
bailiff in the market-place!  Nor, in some things, does the common, hereditary
himself blind at the monumental white shroud that wraps all the prospect
other storied structures, its neighbors --the Byward Tower, or even the
White Friar or a White Nun, evoke such an eyeless statue in the soul?  Or what
Protestant of the Middle American States, why does the passing mention of a
separately regarded, which heightens the intolerable hideousness of that
brute; for, analysed, that heightened hideousness, it might be said, only
character of the day, does the bare mention of Whitsuntide marshal in the
creature stands invested in the fleece of celestial innocence and love; and
hence, by bringing together two such opposite emotions in our minds, the
ideality, who happens to be but loosely acquainted with the peculiar
this to be true; yet, were it not for the whiteness, you would not have
that intensified terror.  As for the white shark, the white gliding
legerdemain in the powers of frost and air, he, shivering and half
matter like this, subtlety appeals to subtlety, and without imagination no
peculiarity is most vividly hit by the French in the name they bestow upon
that fish.  The Romish mass for the dead begins with Requiem eternam
muskiness --why will he start, snort, and with bursting eyes paw the ground in
distant oregon?  no: but here thou beholdest even in a dumb brute, the
rending, goring bison herds are as present as to the deserted wild foal of the
frosts of mountains; the desolate shiftings of the windrowed snows of
.. <p 190 >
evangelist, rides on his pallid horse.  Therefore, in his other moods,
watch below, I ascended to the overclouded deck; and there, dashed upon the
     we borrow the expressive hue of the shroud in which we wrap them.  Nor even

which the mystic sign gives forth such hints; yet with me, as with the colt,
archangel wings, as if to embrace some holy ark.  Wondrous flutterings and
other earthly hues --every stately or lovely emblazoning --the sweet tinges of
king's ghost in supernatural distress.  Through its inexpressible, strange
as if indeed that pallor were as much like the badge of consternation in the
operating without medium upon matter, would touch all objects, even tulips and
so wide, and in those for ever exiled waters, I had lost the miserable
warping memories of traditions and of towns.  Long I gazed at that prodigy
presented himself, always to the bravest Indians he was the object of
symbol of their faction, the desperate White Hoods of Ghent murder their
agencies, fail to enlist among her forces this crowning attribute of the
aspects, does Nature in her least palpable but not the less malicious
behind him, so that he cannot even see it, but only smells its wild animal
conceivable that this glorious thing is utterly unknown to men ashore! 
never!  But some time after, I learned that goney was some seaman's name for
Albino is as well made as other men --has no substantive deformity --and yet
     What is it that in the Albino man so peculiarly repels and often shocks the
aught to do with those mystical impressions which were mine, when I saw
that bird upon our deck.  For neither had I then read the Rhyme, nor knew
the bird to be an albatross.  Yet, in saying this, I do but indirectly

accessory and strange glory which invests it in the White Steed and Albatross.
lurks the secret of the spell; a truth the more evinced in this, that by a
solecism of terms there are birds called grey albatrosses; and these I have
bluff-bowed and fearless as this mighty steed.  Whether marching amid his aides
like that chosen star which every evening leads on the hosts of light.  The
     all around at the horizon, the White Steed gallopingly reviewed them with

     last the Captain made a postman of it; tying a lettered, leathern tally
and marshals in the van of countless cohorts that endlessly streamed it over
round its neck, with the ship's time and place; and then letting it escape.
with a hooked, Roman bill sublime.  At intervals, it arched forth its vast
trembling reverence and awe.  Nor can it be questioned from what stands on
world seems formed in love, the invisible spheres were formed in fright.  But
ye then at the fiery hunt?
    !  Hist!  Did you hear that noise, Cabaco?
From hand to hand, the buckets went in the deepest silence, only broken by
fill the scuttle-butt.  Standing, for the most part, on the hallowed precincts
of the sperm whale.  Besides, when making a passage from one feeding-ground to
of three hundred and sixty-five days and nights was before him; an interval
premature hour of the Pequod's sailing had, perhaps, been correctly selected
sixty degrees of latitude arrive in the equatorial Pacific in time to cruise
seas far remote from his periodical feeding-grounds, should turn up his
there.  Therefore, he must wait for the next ensuing season.  Yet the
make the great passage southwards, double Cape Horn, and then running down
Season-on-the-Line.  No possible endeavor then could enable her commander to
brooding soul into this unfaltering hunt, he would not permit himself to rest
cautious comprehensiveness and unloitering vigilance with which Ahab threw his
the devious zig-zag world-circle of the Pequod's circumnavigating wake.  But
hunters believe that, could he be closely observed and studied throughout the
most of the deadly encounters with the white whale had taken place; there the
if encountered, should be thought capable of individual recognition from his
consecutive years, Moby Dick had been periodically descried, lingering in
probabilities, and, as Ahab fondly thought, every possibility the next thing
snow-white hump, could not but be unmistakable.  And have I not tallied the
whale, Ahab would mutter to himself, as after poring over his charts till
his object have hitherto been spoken of, allusion has only been made to
.. <p 198 >
sheep's ear!  And here, his mad mind would run on in a breathless race; till
food; and, also, calling to mind the regular, ascertained seasons for hunting
the deck he would seek to recover his strength.  Ah, God!  what trances of
torments does that man endure who is consumed with one unachieved revengeful
     she would infallibly encounter him there.  So, too, with some other feeding

intolerably vivid dreams of the night, which, resuming his own intense
thoughts through the day, carried them on amid a clashing of phrensies, and
which, instead of impatiently enduring ashore, he would spend in a
Volcano Bay on the Japanese Coast; yet it did not follow, that were the
less wide limit, applies to the solitaries and hermits among the matured, aged
fully acquainted with the ways of the leviathans, it might seem an absurdly
contrary of this has proved true.  In general, the same remark, only within a
be identically the same with those that were found there the preceding
himself yawned beneath him, a wild cry would be heard through the ship; and
whirled them round and round in his blazing brain, till the very throbbing of
hunted such and such a latitude or longitude this year, say, will turn out to
his delirious but still methodical scheme.  But not so in the reality,
were but the plainest tokens of its intensity.  For, at such times, crazy
a meeting.  There was a circumstance which at first sight seemed to entangle
feeding-grounds, could Ahab hope to encounter his prey; but in crossing the
hence not only at substantiated times, upon well known separate
him to burst from it in horror again.  The latter was the eternal, living
principle or soul in him; and in sleep, being for the time dissociated from
the characterizing mind, which at other times employed it for its outer
vehicle or agent, it spontaneously sought escape from the scorching contiguity
that path, migrating whales may with great confidence be looked for.  And
is presumed to expand or contract); but never exceeds the visual sweep from
swim, generally embraces some few miles in width (more or less, as the vein
to his one supreme purpose; that purpose, by its own sheer inveteracy of
will, forced itself against gods and devils into a kind of self-assumed,
the direction taken by any one whale be straight as a surveyor's parallel, and
     veins, as they are called; continuing their way along a given ocean-line
unbidden and unfathered birth.  Therefore, the tormented spirit that glared
out of bodily eyes, when what seemed Ahab rushed from his room, was for the

.. <p 197 >
in itself.  God help thee, old man, thy thoughts have created a creature in
thee; and he whose intense thinking thus makes him a Prometheus; a vulture
     another, the sperm whales, guided by some infallible instinct -- say, rather,

and shadings which there met his eye; and with slow but steady pencil trace
circular, issued by Lieutenant Maury, of the National Observatory,
himself before it, you would have seen him intently study the various lines
in invariability to those of the herring-shoals or the flights of swallows.
such a chart is in course of completion; and portions of it are presented in
collated, then the migrations of the sperm whale would be found to correspond
granting all this; yet, regarded discreetly and coolly, seems it not but a
of latitude by five degrees of longitude; perpendicularly through each of
which districts are twelve columns for the twelve months; and horizontally
through each of which districts are three lines; one to show the number of
approaching to certainties, concerning the timeliest day to be upon this or
a weariness and faintness of pondering came over him; and in the open air of
seen.
and currents; and thereby calculating the driftings of the sperm whale's
chasm seemed opening in him, from which forked flames and lightnings shot up,
accomplishment of that monomaniac thought of his soul.  Now, to any one not
brought out; almost every night some pencil marks were effaced, and others
narrative in this book; and, indeed, as indirectly touching one or two very
interesting and curious particulars in the habits of sperm whales, the
his cabin, Ahab thus pondered over his charts.  Almost every night they were
.. <p 196 >
lines and courses on the wrinkled charts, some invisible pencil was also
understood, and moreover to take away any incredulity which a profound
had been captured or seen.  While thus employed, the heavy pewter lamp
and places in which, on various former voyages of various ships, sperm whales
induce in some minds, as to the natural verity of the main points of this
Since the above was written, the statement is happily borne out by an official
by Ahab, with a view to this very complexion of things.  Because, an interval
practically or reliably known to me as a whaleman; and from these citations,
     Had you followed Captain Ahab down into his

harpoon, has effected a complete escape; and, after an interval (in one
instance of three years), has been again struck by the same hand, and slain;
when the two irons, both marked by the same private cypher, have been taken
.. < chapter xliv 12  THE CHART >
.. <p 195 >
than that; the man who darted them happening, in the interval, to go in a
trading ship on a voyage to Africa, went ashore there, joined a discovery
been seen on deck; and I suspect our old Mogul knows something of it too.  I
Hark ye, Cabaco, there is somebody down in the after-hold that has not yet

.. <p 195 >
its travels; no doubt it had thrice circumnavigated the globe, brushing with
of unknown regions.  Meanwhile, the whale he had struck must also have been on
damned!  Pass along that return bucket.  There again --there it is! --it sounds
myself, have known three instances similar to this; that is in two of them I
saw the whales struck; and, upon the second attack, saw the two irons with
the respective marks cut in them, afterwards taken from the dead fish.  In the
three-year instance, it so fell out that I was in the boat both times, first
whale again came together, and the one vanquished the other.  I say I,
Cholo, the words above.  Hist!  did you hear that noise, Cabaco?  Take the
cordon, whose post was near the after-hatches, whispered to his neighbor, a
wrinkled brow off the Persian Gulf, or in the Bengal Bay, or China Seas, or
with glaring eyes Ahab would burst from his state room, as though escaping
.. <p 202 >
     stand no nonsense.  I will now refer you to Langsdorff's Voyages for a little

converted from unbelief by a similar fright?  I tell you, the sperm whale will
blood was spilled for it.
Commodore's interview with that whale as providential.  Was not Saul of Tarsus
however ignorant the world ashore may be of it, that there have been several
lamps and candles!  not a gallon you burn, but at least one drop of man's
oil.  No: the reason was this: that from the fatal experiences of the
port to heave down and repair.  I am not superstitious, but I consider the
some days we had very little wind; it was not till the nineteenth that a
such a thwack, that with all his pumps going he made straight for the nearest
.. <p 206 >
the open sea, on our way to Ochotsh.  The weather was very clear and fine,
ship, which was in full sail, was almost upon him, so that it was
Commodore's craft
confidential business with him.  that business consisted in fetching the
raised the ship three feet at least out of the water.  The masts reeled, and
the sails fell altogether, while we who were below all sprang instantly upon
the deck, concluding that we had struck upon some rock; instead of this we
so smite his stout sloop-of-war as to cause her to leak so much as a
gentlemen present.  He peremptorily denied for example, that any whale could
sceptical touching the amazing strength ascribed to them by the professional
Islands.  Conversation turning upon whales, the Commodore was pleased to be
eighteen or twenty years ago Commodore J--- then commanding an American
of unusual adventures as a sea-captain, this day resides in the village of

particularly questioned him concerning this passage in Langsdorff.  He
substantiates every word.
Secondly: The ship Union, also of Nantucket, was in the year
.. <p 205 >
Siberian coast, and purchased by my uncle after bartering away the vessel in
thirteenth of May our ship was ready to sail, and the next day we were out in
adventure, so full, too, of honest wonders --the voyage of Lionel Wafer, one
catastrophe.
corroborative example, if such be needed.  Lionel, it seems, was on his way
disheartening instances where truth requires full as much bolstering as error.
just quoted from Langsdorff, that I cannot forbear inserting it here for a
thither, he says, about four o'clock in the morning, when we were about
one hundred and fifty leagues from the Main of America, our ship felt a
Nantucket.  I have seen Owen Chace, who was chief mate of the Essex at the
gods shipwrecked him again upon unknown rocks and breakers; for the second
for death.  And, indeed, the shock was so sudden and violent, that we took it
Pollard once more sailed for the Pacific in command of another ship, but the
crew reached the land in their boats.  Being returned home at last, Captain
little over, we cast the lead, and sounded, but found no ground.  The
suddenness of the shock made the guns leap in their carriages, and several of
the men were shaken out of their hammocks.  Captain Davis, who lay with his
plank of her has been seen since.  After the severest exposure, part of the
the shock to an earthquake, and seems to substantiate the imputation by
stating that a great earthquake, somewhere about that time, did actually do
in less than ten minutes she settled down and fell over.  Not a surviving
escaping from the boats, issued from the shoal, and bore directly down upon
Nantucket, was cruising in the Pacific Ocean.  One day she saw spouts,
to John Ferdinando, as he calls the modern Juan Fernandes.  In our way
power and malice at times of the sperm whale.  In more than one instance, he
     the ship Essex, Captain Pollard, of

him from its decks.  The English ship Pusie Hall can tell a story on that
head; and, as for his strength, let me say, that there have been examples
water, but was not perceived by any one on board till the moment when the
done it.  First: In the year
point is this: The Sperm Whale is in some cases sufficiently powerful,
secured there; the whale towing her great hull through the water, as a
seek can be established upon testimony entirely independent of my own.  That
sperm whale, once struck, is allowed time to rally, he then acts, not so
Langsdorff, you must know by the way, was attached to the Russian Admiral
century.  Captain Langsdorff thus begins his seventeenth chapter.  By the
character, that upon being attacked he will frequently open his mouth, and
retain it in that dread expansion for several consecutive minutes.  But I must
fact, did you ever hear what might be called regular news direct or indirect
No: because the mails are very irregular between here and New Guinea.  In
the most marvellous event in this book corroborated by plain facts of the
present day, but that these marvels (like all marvels) are mere repetitions
appear in the newspaper obituary you will read to-morrow at your breakfast?
there is nothing new under the sun.  In the sixth Christian century lived
however transient and immediately forgotten that record.  Do you suppose that
fixed, vivid conception of those perils, and the frequency with which they

oft seen from the palmy beach of Ombay?  Was it not so, O New Zealand Jack!
unexaggerating historian, except in some one or two particulars, not at all
White Whale, more especially the catastrophe.  For this is one of those
establishing in all respects the reasonableness of the whole story of the
a great sea-monster was captured in the neighboring Propontis, or Sea of
do not know where I can find a better place than just here, to make mention of
period of more than fifty years.  A fact thus set down in substantial history
Woods, Captain Butler of old had it in his mind to capture that notorious
stories after death, but he was admitted into all the rights, privileges,
ships, as well as for other reasons, he must have been a whale; and I am
strongly inclined to think a sperm whale.  And I will tell you why.  For a
Miguel, after at various times creating great havoc among the boats of
Sylla to the classic scholar.  But this is not all.  New Zealand Tom and Don
constitution of
renown; not only was he famous in life and now is immortal in forecastle
     Was it not so, O Don Miguel!  thou Chilian whale, marked like an old
investigations have recently proved to me, that in modern times there have
that those seas are not, and perhaps never can be, in the present

Commodore Davis of the British navy found the skeleton of a sperm whale.  Now,
Tattoo Land?  Was it not so, O Morquan!  King of Japan, whose lofty jet
as a vessel of war readily passes through the Dardanelles, hence a sperm
things, a place for his habitual gregarious resort.  But further
thou terror of all cruisers that crossed their wakes in the vicinity of the
discovered lounging by them on the sea, without seeking to cultivate a more
Was it not so, O Timor Tom!  thou famed leviathan, scarred like an iceberg,
by no means the largest of that sort, have been found at its surface.  If,
fishery there hung a terrible prestige of perilousness about such a whale as
precise species this sea-monster was, is not mentioned.  But as he destroyed
whale could, by the same route, pass out of the Mediterranean into the
irascible great man, they make distant unobtrusive salutations to him in the
where the lines attached to
then, you properly put these statements together, and reason upon them a bit,
which he sailed from home.  In that up and down manly book of old-fashioned
with several more examples, one way or another known to me, of the great
and such as indicated resentment and fury.  He came directly from the shoal

.. < chapter xlvii 14  THE MAT-MAKER >
events, the whole circumstances taken together, all happening before my own
exact manoeuvres which he made were necessary.  His aspect was most horrible,
into the lead-colored waters.  Queequeg and I were mildly employed weaving
.. <p 212 >
reporting even a porpoise.  This vigilance was not long without reward.
resolved into his own invisible self.  I was the attendant or page of
the seamen were lazily lounging about the decks, or vacantly gazing over
profession.  be all this as it may, his voice was now often heard hailing the
three mast-heads and admonishing them to keep a bright look-out, and not omit
analytic to be verbally developed here, Ahab plainly saw that he must still
to evince all his well known passionate interest in the general pursuit of his
or even frustrate it.  it might be that a long interval would elapse ere the
attention to every minute atmospheric influence which it was possible for his
.. <p 212 >
and hand, backed by a heedful, closely calculating
water, carelessly and unthinkingly drove home every yarn: I say so strange a
     That protection could only consist in his own predominating brain and heart

vibration, and that vibration merely enough to admit of the crosswise
interblending of other threads with its own.  This warp seemed necessity; and
gaining ground, Ahab must of course have been most anxious to protect himself.
impunity, both moral and legal, his crew if so disposed, and to that end
indifferent sword, sometimes hitting the woof slantingly, or crookedly, or
strongly, or weakly, as the case might be; and by this difference in the
laid himself open to the unanswerable charge of usurpation; and with perfect
cashier Ahab.  Nor was there wanting still another precautionary motive more
go by, and no perspective promise of it to them, and then this same
of all hopes of cash --aye, cash.  They may scorn cash now; but let some months
interweavingly working together.  The straight warp of necessity, not to be
swerved from its ultimate course --its every alternating vibration, indeed,
only tending to that; free will still free to ply her shuttle between given
threads; and chance, though restrained in its play within the right lines of
gaining other pious perquisites by the way.  Had they been strictly held to
daily appetites.  For even the high lifted and chivalric Crusaders of old
a certain generous knight-errantism in them, still, while for the love of it
evanescent.  The permanent constitutional condition of the manufactured man,
ball of free will dropped from my hand, and I stood gazing up at the clouds
weaving away at the Fates.  There lay the fixed
mad Gay-Header, Tashtego.  His body was reaching eagerly forward, his hand
for any object remote and blank in the pursuit, however promissory of life
.. <p 211 >
air; but from few of those lungs could that accustomed old cry have derived
influential with him.  It would be refining too much, perhaps, even
over the seas, from hundreds of whalemen's look-outs perched as high in the
over you half suspended in air, so wildly and eagerly peering towards the
announcement of his quest; yet all sailors of all sorts are more or less
blows!  there!  there!  there!  she blows!  she blows!
if this were otherwise, there were not wanting other motives much more
Moby Dick.  For however eagerly and impetuously the savage crew had hailed the
it; that the full terror of the voyage must be kept withdrawn into the
be stripped of that strange imaginative impiousness which naturally invested
noways more significantly manifested than in his superlative sense and
same undeviating and reliable uniformity.  And thereby whalemen distinguish
shadows of Fate, and by those wild cries announcing their coming.  There she
him.  Not only that, but the subtle insanity of Ahab respecting Moby Dick was
fall into open relapses of rebellion against his captain's leadership, unless
White Whale was seen.  During that long interval Starbuck would ever be apt to
the exact minute to Ahab.  The ship was now kept away from the wind, and she
this fish from other tribes of his genus.  There go flukes!  was now the cry
dreaminess did there then reign all over the ship and all over the sea, only
captain's quest, and could he, would joyfully disintegrate himself from it,
complete spiritual man any more than mere corporeal superiority involves
concealed beneath the surface, mills round, and swiftly swims off in the
opposite quarter --this deceitfulness of his could not now be in action; for
there was no reason to suppose that the fish seen by Tashtego had been in any
way alarmed, or indeed knew at all of our vicinity.  One of the men selected
in some respects was over Starbuck, yet that ascendency did not cover the
get out of order.  He knew, for example, that however magnetic his ascendency
mizzen had come down; the line tubs were fixed in their places; the cranes
went gently rolling before it.  Tashtego reporting that the whales had gone
sea like three samphire baskets over high cliffs.  Outside of the bulwarks
be the hated one he hunted.  But if such an hypothesis be indeed
multiplied the chances that each subsequently encountered whale would prove to
.. <p 210 >
With a start all glared at dark Ahab, who was surrounded by five dusky
and the horrid aspect and revenge of the whale, wholly engrossed my
phantoms that seemed fresh formed out of air.
cannot now recall), induce me to be satisfied that I am correct in my
altogether to abandon the collateral prosecution of the voyage.  Or at least
     Though, consumed with the hot fire of his

seemed, were flitting on the other side of the deck, and, with a noiseless
celerity, were casting loose the tackles and bands of the boat which swung
such a marvellous cadence as from Tashtego the Indian's.  As he stood hovering
technically called the captain's, on account of its hanging from the
.. < chapter xlvi 22  SURMISES >
there.  This boat had always been deemed one of the spare boats, though
Chinese jacket of black cotton funereally invested him, with wide black
trowsers of the same dark stuff.  But strangely crowning his ebonness was a
glistening white plaited turban, the living hair braided and coiled round
.. <p 209 >
were of that vivid, tiger-yellow complexion peculiar to some of the aboriginal
natives of the Manillas; --a race notorious for a certain diabolism of
--he speaks of the mysterious and mortal attack of the animal.
counting-room they suppose to be elsewhere.  While yet the wondering ship's
hospitable shore.  The dark ocean and swelling waters were nothing; the
reflections, until day again made its appearance.  In another place --p. 45,
secret confidential agents on the water of the devil, their lord, whose
was the half-hissed reply.  Lower away then; d'ye hear?  shouting across the
were thrust out; the mainyard was backed, and the three boats swung over the
     rocks, with all the other ordinary subjects of fearful contemplation, 

the sailors, goat-like, leaped down the rolling ship's side into the tossed
what is called a sword-mat, for an additional lashing to our boat.  So still
whence that voice dropped like a wing.  High aloft in the cross-trees was that
while, with a dexterous, off-handed daring, unknown in any other vocation,
with one white tooth evilly protruding from its steel-like lips.  A rumpled
white-turbaned old man at their head, All ready there, Fedallah?  Ready,
     give way, all four boats.  Thou, Flask, pull out more to leeward!  Aye,
     All at once the out-stretched arm gave a peculiar motion and then remained
Archy.  Oh, I don't mind 'em, sir, said Archy; I knew it all before now.
aye, sir, cheerily cried little King-Post, sweeping round his great steering
fixed, while the boat's five oars were seen simultaneously peaked.  Boat and
crew sat motionless on the sea.  Instantly the three spread boats in the rear
from his closer vicinity Ahab had observed it.  Every man look out along his
oars!  cried Starbuck.  Thou, Queequeg, stand up!  Nimbly springing up on
paused on their way.  The whales had irregularly settled bodily down into the

sir, if ye please!  Halloa!  returned Starbuck, turning round not a single
steering oar as in a thousand boat lowerings ere the White Whale had torn him.
counterbalance any tendency to trip: Ahab was seen steadily managing his
arm, like a fencer's, thrown half backward into the air, as if to
distant Flask's boat was also lying breathlessly still; its commander
recklessly standing upon the top of the loggerhead, a stout sort of post
rooted in the keel, and rising some two feet above the level of the stern
.. <p 219 >
at the other end of the boat Ahab, with one
of humorists, whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous, as to put
clearly cut against the alternating depressions of the watery horizon; while
same time little King-Post was full of a large and tall ambition, so that
the triangular raised box in the bow, the savage stood erect there, and with
horizontal burst boiler out of a Mississippi steamer.  As for Fedallah, who was
strength, which periodically started the boat along the water like a
swiftly slid aft, and then erecting himself volunteered his lofty shoulders
hearing of his officers, having sided the furthest to windward, was still
enigmatical hintings of the unaccountable Elijah.  Meantime, Ahab, out of
creeping on board the Pequod during the dim Nantucket dawn, as well as the
accounting for their appearance, they were for the time freed from
this loggerhead stand-point of his did by no means satisfy King-Post.  I
spice to the fun, that no oarsman could hear such queer invocations without
of their wonder; and so what with all this and Stubb's confident way of
     some of the ship's company; but Archy's fancied discovery having some time

dry on his shoulders.  And here was Flask now standing, Daggoo with one
lifted arm furnishing him with a breast-band to lean against and steady
himself by.  At any time it is a strange sight to the tyro to see with what
triangularly platformed level with the gunwale, Starbuck himself was seen
posture in his boat, even when pitched about by the most riotously perverse
deck, this had not unreasonably awakened a sort of superstitious amazement in
the loggerhead itself, under such circumstances.  But the sight of little
ain't the White Whale to-day!  Give way!  Now the advent of these outlandish
suspected.  They were hidden down there.  The White Whale's at the bottom of
noble negro to every roll of the sea harmoniously rolled his fine form.  On
and that's what he went into the after hold for, so often, as Dough-Boy long
nobler than the rider.  Though truly vivacious, tumultuous, ostentatious
little Flask would now and then stamp with impatience; but not one added
profit hand in hand!  Aye, aye, I thought as much, soliloquized Stubb,
(Pull, my boys!) Sperm, sperm's the play!  This at least is duty; duty and
There's hogsheads of sperm ahead, Mr. Stubb, and that's what ye came for.
betrayed no such far-gazing solicitudes.  The whales might have made one of
their regular soundings, not a temporary dive from mere fright; and if that
very much, my fine fellow; only I wish you fifty feet taller.  Whereupon
.. <p 218 >

rammed home the loading with his thumb-end; but hardly had he ignited his
match across the rough sand-paper of his hand, when Tashtego, his harpooneer,
     Smuggled on board, somehow, before the ship sailed. (Strong, strong, boys! )

dropped like light from his erect attitude to his seat,
.. <p 221 >
blue, thus giving no distantly discernible token of the movement, though
they are!  To a landsman, no whale, nor any sign of a herring, would have
hailed the mate.  Mr. Starbuck!  larboard boat there, ahoy!  a word with ye,
water, and thin scattered puffs of vapor hovering over it, and suffusingly
all inferiors on their guard in the matter of obeying them.  In obedience to a
as that, Flask seemed perched at the mast-head of some ship which had sunk to
intensely heated plates of iron.  Beneath this atmospheric waving and curling,
acted like a charm upon the crew.  Then again, Stubb was one of those odd sort
Besides he all the time looked so easy and indolent himself, so loungingly
pulling for dear life, and yet pulling for the mere joke of the thing.
seemed their forerunning couriers and detached flying outriders.  All four
planting his feet firmly against two opposite planks of the boat, the gigantic
compounded of fun and fury, and the fury seemed so calculated merely as a
He would say the most terrific things to his crew, in a tone so strangely
my good boys, said Starbuck, in the lowest possible but intensest
concentrated whisper to his men; while the sharp fixed glance from his eyes
in inculcating the religion of rowing.  But you must not suppose from this
unerring binnacle compasses.  He did not say much to his crew, though, nor
     he had rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general, and especially

command, now soft with entreaty.  How different the loud little King-Post.
     That's it --that's it.  Now ye do something; that looks like it, my

Beach me, beach me on their black backs, boys; only do that for me, and I'll
children, boys.  Lay me on --lay me on!  O Lord, Lord!  but I shall go stark,
pull; never mind the brimstone --devils are good fellows enough.  So, so;
sign over to you my Martha's Vineyard plantation, boys; including wife and
eyes out!  Here!  whipping out the sharp knife from his girdle; every
.. <p 217 >
ginger-cakes don't ye pull? --pull and break something!  pull, and start your
philosophically drawled Stubb, who, with his unlighted short pipe,
soothingly sighed Stubb to his crew, some of whom still showed signs of
     be in a hurry.  Why don't you snap your oars, you rascals?  Bite something,

.. <p 222 >
Didn't I hear 'em in the hold?  And didn't I tell Cabaco here of it?  What say
into 'em.  Merrily, merrily, hearts-alive.  Pudding for supper, you know;
Three cheers, men --all hearts alive!  Easy, easy; don't be in a hurry --don't
pull, and keep pulling; nothing more.  Crack all your backbones, and bite
staring mad: See!  see that white water!  And so shouting, he pulled his hat
stern like a crazed colt from the prairie.  Look at that chap now,
come to help us --never mind from where --the more the merrier.  Pull, then, do
here; for you live under the blessed light of the evangelical land.  Only the
infidel sharks in the audacious seas may give ear to such words, when, with
tornado brow, and eyes of red murder, and foam-glued lips, Ahab leaped after
were the case, Stubb, as his wont in such cases, it seems, was resolved to
Flask has.  Fits?  yes, give him fits --that's the very word -- pitch fits
declared to be incessantly tantalizing his boat's bow with its tail --these
wondrous habitude of unconscious skill the whaleman will maintain an erect
your knives in two -- that's all.  Take it easy --why don't ye take it easy, I
boat, as it would tip for an instant on the knife-like edge of the sharper
but ears, and no limbs but arms, in these critical moments.  It was a sight
dip into the watery glens and hollows; the keen spurrings and goadings to
in his oil-jacket, was now calmly smoking his pipe in the rain; Mr. Stubb,
friend, does this sort of thing often happen?  Without much emotion, though
often happen.  Mr. Stubb, said I, turning to that worthy, who, buttoned up
soaked through just like me, he gave me to understand that such things did
shaking myself in my jacket to fling off the water; Queequeg, my fine
I, when they had dragged me, the last man, to the deck, and I was still
joke.  There is nothing like the perils of whaling to breed this free and easy
that going plump on a flying whale with your sail set in a foggy squall is the
the live coals down the chimney of a flaming furnace as hail those boats in
.. <p 226 >
of extreme tribulation; it comes in the very midst of his earnestness, so
odd sort of wayward mood I am speaking of, comes over a man only in some time
things, and I am not.  Will you tell me whether it is an unalterable law in
and worryings, prospects of sudden disaster, peril of life and limb; all
digestion gobbles down bullets and gun flints.  And as for small difficulties
capsizings in the water and consequent bivouacks on the deep, were matters
of common occurrence in this kind of life; considering that at the
superlatively critical instant of going on to the whale I must resign my life

this fishery, Mr. Flask, for an oarsman to break his own back pulling himself
very moment is in his impetuousness upon the point of scuttling the craft
in this strange mixed affair we call life when a man takes this whole universe
     There are certain queer times and occasions

     and considering that Starbuck, notwithstanding, was famous for his great
.. < chapter xlix 15  THE HYENA >
.. <p 224 >
leeward.  Our sail was now set, and, with the still rising wind, we rushed
implicated, touching the White Whale: taking all things together, I say, I
prudent Starbuck's boat; and finally considering in what a devil's chase I was
.. <p 225 >
perishing, --an oar or a lance pole.
legatee.  It may seem strange that of all men sailors should be tinkering at
their last wills and testaments, but there are no people in the world more
board.  Ere the squall came close to, the other boats had cut loose from
dashed against it by the seas, and were at last taken up and safely landed on
occasion, I felt all the easier; a stone was rolled away from my heart.
for one instant it tossed and gaped beneath the ship's bows like a chip at
a huge, vague form.  Affrighted, we all sprang into the sea as the ship at
months or weeks as the case might be.  I survived myself; my death and burial
thought I might as well go below and make a rough draft of my will.
.. <p 225 >
ear.  We all heard a faint creaking, as of ropes and yards hitherto muffled by
still booming through the mist, the waves curling and hissing around us like
despairing of ship or boat, we lifted up our eyes as the dawn came on.  The
in the midst of despair.  Wet, drenched through, and shivering cold,
as the standard-bearer of this forlorn hope.  There, then, he sat, holding up
performing now the office of life-preservers.  So, cutting the lashing of the
all attempts to bale out the boat.  The oars were useless as propellers,
mate, Mr. Starbuck, is by far the most careful and prudent.  I suppose then,
boat, unless maybe to stop the plug-hole with my timber toe.  Oh!  he's a
were locked up in my chest.  I looked round me tranquilly and contentedly,
in these jaws of death!  In vain we hailed the other boats; as well roar to
     the water covering every rib and plank, so that to our downward gazing eyes

That would disable him; but he has one knee, and good part of the other left,
along; the boat going with such madness through the water, that the lee oars
Swimming round it we picked up the floating oars, and lashing them across the
a whaling captain to jeopardize that life in the active perils of the chase.
paramount importance of his life to the success of the voyage, it is right for
the iron, escaped.  Though completely swamped, the boat was nearly unharmed.
heedfulness in the fishery; considering that I belonged to this uncommonly
a ledge; the sail collapsed and exploded; a
two legs man is but a hobbling wight in all times of danger; considering that
the pursuit of whales is always under great and extraordinary difficulties;
came an invisible push from astern, while forward the boat seemed striking on
boat; it was the darted iron of Queequeg.  Then all in one welded commotion
hunt?  As a general thing, the joint-owners of the Pequod must have plainly
thought not.  Ahab well knew that although his friends at home would think
little of his entering a boat in certain comparatively harmless vicissitudes
my frock, here goes a cool, collected dive at death and destruction, and the
orders in person, yet for Captain Ahab to have a boat actually apportioned to
facing the life and death peril so close to them ahead, yet with their eyes
supplied with five extra men, as that same boat's crew, he well knew that
such generous conceits never entered the heads of the owners of the Pequod.
harpoon in hand, sprang to his feet.  Though not one of the oarsmen was then
Soon after, two cries in quick succession on each side of us denoted that the
of his own touching all that matter.  Until Cabaco's published discovery, the
sailors had little foreseen it, though to be sure when, after being a little
while out of port, all hands had concluded the customary business of fitting
the whaleboats for service; when some time after this Ahab was now and then
before the squall comes.  There's white water again! --close to!  Spring!
with his own frantic stampings; considering that the particular disaster to
Pequod bearing down upon her boats with outstretched sails, like a wild hen
pulled more apart; Starbuck giving chase to three whales running dead to
finds himself pulling into the charmed, churned circle of the hunted sperm
marching from the bosom of his wife into the fever heat of his first battle;
observed in him, and particularly his solicitude in having an extra coat of
pointed pressure of his ivory limb; and also the anxiety he evinced in
sheathing in the bottom of the boat, as if to make it better withstand the
after her screaming brood; --all this was thrilling.  Not the raw recruit,
darting or stabbing at the whale; when it was observed how often he stood up
in that boat with his solitary knee fixed in the semi-circular depression in
the cleat, and with the carpenter's chisel gouged out a little here and
the horizontal piece in the boat's bow for bracing the knee against in
whale face foremost.  Ha, ha!  the whale would give them squint for squint,
gain the top of the opposite hill; the headlong, sled-like slide down its
ultimate chase of Moby Dick; for he had already revealed his intention to
you know.  I don't know that, my little man; I never yet saw him kneel.
wonderful old man!  I don't think it so strange, after all, on that
about the open sea on planks, bits of wreck, oars, whale-boats, canoes,
and ash-holes of the earth to man these floating outlaws of whalers; and the
blown-off Japanese junks, and what not; that Beelzebub himself might climb up
desolation, and therefore fit roosting-place for their homeless selves.  And
heaved and heaved, still unrestingly heaved the black sea, as if its vast
impressive was the cry, and so deliriously exciting, that almost every soul
morning, perched on our stays, rows of these birds were seen; and spite of
our hootings, for a long time obstinately clung to the hemp, as though they
rigging, and hailed the mortal crew.  There she blows!  Had the trump of
Close to our bows, strange forms in the water darted hither and thither before
tides were a conscience; and the great
transformed into those fowls and these fish, seemed condemned to swim on
silver chips, the foam-flakes flew over her bulwarks; then all this desolate
all space, in repugnance to our vengeful errand, seemed vacating itself of
and days we voyaged along, through seas so wearily, lonesomely mild, that
us, we found ourselves launched into this tormented sea, where guilty beings
though assuming for the time the almost continual command of the drenched and
potency from the contrasting serenity of the weather, in which, beneath all
These temporary apprehensions, so vague but so awful, derived a wondrous

the issue of the gale.  Then Captain and crew become practical fatalists.
of these moonlight nights, it was his wont to mount to the main-mast head,
self-same whale; and that whale, Moby Dick.  For a time, there reigned, too, a
us; while thick in our rear flew the inscrutable sea-ravens.  And every
far apart latitudes and longitudes, that unnearable spout was cast by one
ever alluring us on.  Nor with the immemorial superstition of their race, and
stood in a line along the bulwarks in the waist; and the better to guard
advancing still further and further in our van, this solitary jet seemed for
.. <p 232 >
seethings, made what seemed a silvery silence, not a solitude: on such a
but to wonder at it.  Mysteriously jetted into the clear moonlight,
all; but upon making sail to overtake it, once more it disappeared as if it
the waves rolled by like scrolls of silver; and, by their soft, suffusing
the ocean prevailed; still in silence the men swung in the bowlines; still
windward, while an occasional squall of sleet or snow would all but congeal
at the same silent hour, it was again announced: again it was descried by
     man walked.  But though the ship so swiftly sped, and though from every eye,
to mark how the
being off the mouth of the Rio de la Plata; and the Carrol Ground, an

floor-screwed chair; the rain and half-melted sleet of the storm from which
he had some time before emerged, still slowly dripping from the unremoved hat
stroke of his dead limb sounded like a coffin-tap.  On life and death this old
influences were struggling in her --one to mount direct to heaven, the other
air beneath the feet; while still she rushed along, as if two antagonistic
     and every stunsail spread.  The best man in the ship must take the helm.
so that the closed eyes were pointed towards the needle of the tell-tale that
swung from a beam in the ceiling.  Terrible old man!  thought Starbuck with a

.. < chapter lii 13  THE ALBATROSS >
.. <p 230 >
deemed our ship some drifting, uninhabited craft; a thing appointed to
distant Crozetts, a good cruising ground for Right Whalemen, a sail loomed
indulged in mundane amours.
mariner started to his feet as if some winged spirit had lighted in the
mundane soul were in anguish and remorse for the long sin and suffering it had
after spending his uniform interval there for several successive nights
.. <p 231 >
skeleton of a stranded walrus.  All down her sides, this spectral appearance
was traced with long channels of reddened rust, while all her spars and her
So, with his ivory leg inserted into its accustomed hole, and with one hand
glittering god uprising from the sea.  Fedallah first descried this jet.  For
look-outs at those three mast-heads.  They seemed clad in the skins of
no words were spoken; and the silent ship, as if manned by painted sailors in
of cruising.  Standing in iron hoops nailed to the mast, they swayed and
swung over a fathomless sea;
demoniac waves.  By night the same muteness of humanity before the shrieks of
.. <p 234 >
     Days, weeks passed, and under easy
the air came so nigh to each other that we might almost have leaped from the
mast-heads of one ship to those of the other; yet, those forlorn-looking

.. < chapter li 16  THE SPIRIT-SPOUT >
ahoy!  Have ye seen the White Whale?  But as the strange captain, leaning over
cannot sustain
in vain strove to make himself heard without it.  Meantime his ship was still
increasing the distance between.  While in various silent ways the seamen of
somehow fell from his hand into the sea; and the wind now rising amain, he
the Pequod were evincing their observance of this ominous incident at the
it might have been even authority over him; all this none knew.  But one
perch at the fore-mast-head, I had a good view of that sight so remarkable to
and all men his descendants, unknowing whence he came, eyed each other as

by her aspect that the stranger vessel was a Nantucketer and shortly bound
home, he loudly hailed -- Ahoy there!  This is the Pequod, bound round the
wordless ahab stood up to the blast.  Even when wearied nature seemed
this time three years, if I am not at home, tell them to address them to-----
communities, especially the Oriental isles to the east of the continent --those
.. <p 230 >
some days before had been placidly swimming by our side, darted away with what
seemed shuddering fins, and ranged themselves fore and aft with the
stranger's flanks.  Though in the course of his continual voyagings Ahab must
the pallid bulwarks, was in the act of putting his trumpet to his mouth, it
veriest trifles capriciously carry meanings.  Swim away from me, do ye?
on board instinctively desired a lowering.  Walking the deck with quick,
words, but the tone conveyed more of deep helpless sadness than the insane
Whence he came in a mannerly world like this, by what sort of unaccountable
it may, certain it is that while the subordinate phantoms soon found their
would at times be descried.  During all this blackness of the elements, Ahab,
world!  Tell them to address all future letters to the Pacific ocean!  and

     and discover sights more sweet and strange than any Cyclades or Islands of
King Solomon, then there were promise in the voyage.  But in pursuit of those
brotherly love about it at all.  As touching Slave-ships meeting, why, they are
ensigns, that there does not seem to be much right-down hearty good-will and
first hail is -- How many skulls? --the same way that whalers hail-- How many
for they are infernal villains on both sides, and don't like to see overmuch
in such a prodigious hurry, they run away from each other as soon as possible.
of each other's villanous likenesses.  But look at the godly, honest,
rig.  As for Men-of-War, when they chance to meet at sea, they first go
and all the time indulging, perhaps, in finical criticism upon each other's
cutting each other on the high seas, like a brace of dandies in Broadway;
grin at it, and repeat gamesome stuff about spouters and blubber-boilers,
oftentimes pass on without so much as a single word of recognition, mutually
does not take much to heart; probably, because he knows that he has a few
harmless little foible in the English whale-hunters, which the Nantucketer
more whales than all the English, collectively, in ten years.  But this is a
But where this superiority in the English whalemen does really consist, it
Nantucketer, with his nondescript provincialisms, as a sort of sea-peasant.
reserved, and your Yankee, he does not fancy that sort of thing in anybody
profession of theirs has any peculiar glory about it.  It sometimes ends in
uncommon elevation, indeed; but only at the gallows.  And besides, when a
.. <p 238 >
difference of country make any very essential difference; that is, so long as
lifted above a whaleman, in that assertion the pirate has no solid basis to
stand on.  but what is a gam?  you might wear out your index-finger running
unostentatious, hospitable, sociable, free-and-easy whaler!  What does the
common pursuit and mutually shared privations and perils.  Nor would
an agreeable chat.  For not only would they meet with all the sympathies of
     ship she now meets.  Besides, they would exchange the whaling news, and have
except he could contribute some of that information he so absorbingly sought.
needs a definition, and should be incorporated into the Lexicon.  With that
up and down the columns of dictionaries, and never find the word.  Dr.

for one of them may have received a transfer of letters from some third, and
time, on board of one ship, and the two chief mates on the other.  There is
cruising-ground itself, even though they are equally long absent from home.
latest whaling intelligence from the cruising-ground to which she may be
fishery.  In a pirate, man-of-war, or slave ship, when the captain is rowed
And in return for that courtesy, the outward-bound ship would receive the
sometimes cushioned seat there, and often steers himself with a pretty little
a year or two later than the last one on her blurred and thumb-worn files.
captains, officers, and not a few of the men are personally known to each
occasions --if so it had been that, by the process of hailing, he had obtained
matter of course, in the case of vessels owned in one seaport, and whose
King's Mills; how much more natural, I say, that under such circumstances
view, let me learnedly define it.  Gam.  Noun --A social meeting of two (or more)
     Barrens and Salisbury Plains of the sea, two whaling vessels descrying each

harpooneer is of the number, that subordinate is the steersman upon the
occasion, and the captain, having no
resting in concert: then, how much more natural that upon the illimitable Pine
place to sit in, is pulled off to his visit all standing like a pine tree.
.. <p 237 >
visible world resting on him from the sides of the two ships, this standing
captain is all alive to the importance of sustaining his dignity by
Plain in England; if
the immense projecting steering oar hitting him now and then in the small of
his back, the after-oar reciprocating by rapping his knees in front.  He is
thus completely wedged before and behind, and can only expand himself
sideways by settling down on his stretched legs; but a sudden, violent pitch
crossing the Pine Barrens in New York State, or the equally desolate Salisbury
But all this might remain inadequately estimated, were not something said
poles, and you cannot stand them up.  Then, again, it would never do in plain
sight of the world's riveted eyes, it would never do, I say, for this
straddling captain to be seen steadying himself the slightest particle by
constant use among some fifteen thousand true born Yankees.  Certainly it
he cared not to consort, even for five minutes, with any stranger captain,
pockets; but perhaps being generally very large, heavy hands, he carries them
there for ballast.  Nevertheless there have occurred instances, well
a negative answer to the question he put.  For, as it eventually turned out,
has no seat astern, no sofa of that sort whatever, and no tiller at all.
oarsman's hair, and hold on there like grim death.
board of the whaler we had spoken was this: the wind and sea betokened
     The ostensible reason why Ahab did not go on

.. < chapter liii 17  THE GAM >
.. <p 236 >
course of the ship.
like some noted four corners of a great highway, where you meet more
travellers than in any other part.  It was not very long after speaking the
compass at the helm, the Captain, while below, can inform himself of the
The cabin-compass is called the tell-tale, because without going to the
homeward-bound whaleman, the Town-Ho, was encountered.  She was manned almost
of Moby Dick.  To some the general interest in the White Whale was now wildly
whale-boat never admits of any such effeminacy; and therefore as in gamming a
.. <p 234n. >
those so called judgments of God which at times are said to overtake some men.
whaler do when she meets another whaler in any sort of decent weather?  She
wholly by Polynesians.  In the short gam that ensued she gave us strong news
Nevertheless, so potent an influence did this thing have on those seamen in
as publicly narrated on the ship, the whole of this strange affair I now
conveniently imagine, gentlemen.  Therefore when he betrayed this solicitude
little inclined to any sort of nervous apprehensiveness touching his own
person as any fearless, unthinking creature on land or on sea that you can
found gaining once more, there was in truth some small concern manifested by
anxious.  Much this way had it been with the Town-Ho; so when her leak was
style in which I once narrated it at Lima, to a lounging circle of my Spanish
bubbling from
accessible coast, or if any other reasonable retreat is afforded them.  It is
the breeze.  Now this Radney, I suppose, was as little of a coward, and as
lee scupper-holes.  Now, as you well know, it is not seldom the case in this
for a voyage of considerable length; that is, if it lie along a tolerably
probability would be that he and his shipmates would never again remember it,
superior in general pride of manhood, straightway against that man he
at the furthest after pointing her prow for her island haven, that the
Steelkilt --but, gentlemen, you shall hear.  It was not more than a day or two
heap of dust of it.  Be this conceit of mine as it may, gentlemen, at all
events Steelkilt was a tall and noble animal with a head like a Roman, and a
.. <p 244 >
snorting charger; and a brain, and a heart, and a soul in him, gentlemen,
the pumps ran across the deck, and poured itself out in steady spouts at the
human recognition which is the meanest slave's right; thus
     though in after life he had long followed our austere Atlantic and your
mate drawing near as he was toiling at the pump with the rest, the Lakeman
affected not to notice him, but unawed, went on with his gay banterings.

the rippling clear water; clear as any mountain spring, gentlemen --that
what, men, old Rad's investment must go for it!  he had best cut away his part
have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach, to nurse at his maternal sea;
for out of sight of land, however inland, they have drowned full many a
alike the full-rigged merchant ship, the armed cruiser of the State, the
capitals of Buffalo and Cleveland, as well as Winnebago villages; they float
     for leagues and leagues are flanked by ancient and unentered forests, where
playing the devil with his estate, I can tell him.  But he's a simple old
soul, -- Rad, and a beauty too.  Boys, they say the rest of his property is

and by the goat-like craggy guns of lofty Mackinaw; they have heard the fleet
maritime approaches to our numerous territorial colonies from the East,
by two great contrasting nations, as the Atlantic is; they furnish long
expansiveness, with many of the ocean's noblest traits; with many of its
Ontario, and Huron, and Superior, and Michigan, --possess an ocean-like
interflowing aggregate, those grand fresh-water seas of ours --Erie, and
rather heavy weather, the ship still continued her cruisings, the mariners
their hats off to it, and ere long that peculiar gasping of the lungs was
been nurtured by all those agrarian
far manilla; this lakeman, in the land-locked heart of our America, had yet
panting, and sat himself down on the windlass; his face fiery red, his eyes
Lake Erie, Don; but--I crave your courtesy--may be, you shall soon hear further
Sebastian, rising in his swinging mat of grass.  On the eastern shore of our
that corporeally exasperated state, I know not; but so it happened.
--Buffalo!  Pray, what is a Lakeman, and where is Buffalo?" said Don
vengeance of Steelkilt, a Lakeman and desperado from Buffalo.  "Lakeman!
matters consequent upon allowing a pig to run at large.  Now, gentlemen,
     the Town-Ho had all but certainly arrived in perfect safety at her port

be done in the case of ships actually foundering at the time.  Such,
gentlemen, is the inflexibility of sea-usages and the instinctive love of
neatness in seamen; some of whom would not willingly drown without first
washing their faces.  But in all vessels this broom business is the
prescriptive province of the boys, if boys there be aboard.  Besides, it was
founder by the way, because his pumps were of the best, and being
turns at the pumps; and being the most athletic seaman of them all,
sail, stood away for the nearest harbor among the islands, there to have
increased.  So much so, that now taking some alarm, the captain, making all
now!"  And with that the pump clanged like fifty fire-engines; the men tossed
could not find it after searching the hold as low down as was possible in
common.  They supposed a sword-fish had stabbed her, gentlemen.  But the
daily usage, it was observed that she made more water in her hold than
shovel was almost as plainly meant to sting and insult Steelkilt, as though
gentlemen, the Town-Ho, Sperm
understand this; and all this and doubtless much more, the Lakeman fully
prior to my first learning the events which I am about rehearsing to you,
     friends, one saint's eve, smoking upon the thick-gilt tiled piazza of the

perceived the stacks of powder-casks heaped up in him and the slow-match
silently burning along towards them; as he instinctively saw all this, that
strange forbearance and unwillingness to stir up the deeper passionateness in
ye, and let's have a taste.  By the Lord, it's worth bottling!  I tell ye
which had made Steelkilt Charlemagne, had he been born son to Charlemagne's
club hammer which he had snatched from a cask near by.  Heated and irritated
.. <p 250 >
domineering and outrageous manner unconditionally reiterating his command;
Grand Canal furnishes the sole transition between quietly reaping in a
all diminish the curiousness of this matter, that to many thousands of our
meanwhile advancing upon the still seated Lakeman, with an uplifted cooper's
chicha upon his silvery ruffles.  "No need to travel!  The world's one Lima.  I
Sydney men, are so much distrusted by our whaling captains.  Nor does it at
holy as the hills. --But the story."  I left off, gentlemen, where the Lakeman
rural boys and young men born along its line, the probationary life of the
seas.  "I see!  I see!  " impetuously exclaimed Don Pedro, spilling his
emphatically evinced by this; that our wild whale-fishery contains so many of
one.  In sum, gentlemen, what the wildness of this canal life is, is
shook the back-stay.  Hardly had he done so, when he was surrounded by the
thank him heartily; would fain be not ungrateful; but it is often one of the
his own canal, I have received good turns from one of these Canallers; I
terror to the smiling innocence of the villages through which he floats; his
scoundrel, and smoke him along to the quarter-deck.  At intervals, he ran
Cleopatra, ripening his apricot thigh upon the sunny deck.  But ashore, all
Canaller would make a fine dramatic hero, so abundantly and picturesquely
Steelkilt and his desperadoes were too much for them all; they succeeded in
gaining the forecastle deck, where, hastily slewing about three or four large
casks in a line with the windlass, these sea-Parisians entrenched themselves
     you pour out again."  Freely depicted in his own vocation, gentlemen, the
now menacing them with a pistol in each hand, just brought to him by the
steward.  "Come out of that, ye cut-throats!"  Steelkilt leaped on the

-- Corrupt as Lima.  It but bears out your saying, too; churches more
death would be the signal for a murderous mutiny on the part of all hands.
Fearing in his heart lest this might prove but too true, the captain a little
desisted, but still commanded the insurgents instantly to return to their
duty.  "Will you promise not to touch us, if we do?" demanded their
ringleader.
do not bow and look surprised; you know the proverb all along this coast
 "Well for our northern friend, Dame Isabella's Inquisition wanes in Lima,"
the ship, by knocking off at a time like this?  Turn to!" and he once more
raised a pistol.  "Sink the ship?" cried Steelkilt.  "Aye, let her sink.  Not
Pedro, looking downwards into the crowded plazza, with humorous concern.
.. <p 249 >
response.  The Lakeman now patrolled the barricade, all the while keeping
lower jaw of the mate was stove in his head; he fell on the hatch spouting
metropolitan freebooters
of churches.  For by some curious fatality, as it is often noted of your
the buffalo; I believe I have broken a finger here against his cursed jaw;
continual stream of Venetianly corrupt and often lawless life.  There's your
the holy-of-holies of great forests; on Roman arches over Indian rivers;
don't be a fool; forget it all; we are ready to turn to; treat us decently,
fields, unrivalled for fertility; by billiard-room and bar-room; through
     For three hundred and sixty miles, gentlemen, through the entire breadth of
promises, turn to, I say!" "Look ye, now," cried the Lakeman, flinging out
his arm towards him.  "there are a few of us here (and I am one of them) who

Canallers are; for such information may throw side-light upon my story."
it's not our interest; we want to be peaceable; we are ready to work, but we
the uproar, and sought to drag their man out of it towards the forecastle.
chicha's very fine; and ere proceeding further I will tell ye what our
     hereabouts in this dull, warm, most lazy, and hereditary land, we know but

three junior mates and the four harpooneers, who all crowded him to the deck.
us, we won't do a hand's turn." "Down into the forecastle then, down with
Canallers.  Pardon: who and what are they?" "Canallers, Don, are the boatmen
"We have seen many whale-ships in our harbors, but never heard of your
den, growlingly disappearing, like bears into a cave.  As the Lakeman's bare
head was just level with the planks,
blood like a whale.  Ere the cry could go aft Steelkilt was shaking one of
the Captain and his posse leaped the barricade, and rapidly drawing over the
slide of the scuttle, planted their group of hands upon it, and loudly
his eye on the Captain, and jerking out such sentences as these: --"It's not
by the gods.  Immediately the hammer touched the cheek; the next instant the
something down the crack, closed it, and turned the key upon them --ten in
number --leaving on deck some twenty or more, who thus far had remained
     told his persecutor that if the hammer but grazed his cheek he (Steelkilt)

last place it was feared the insurgents might emerge, after breaking through
the bulkhead below.  But the hours of darkness passed in peace; the men who
still remained at their duty toiling hard at the pumps, whose clinking and
heavy hammer within an inch of his teeth; meanwhile repeating a string of
.. <p 248 >
summoned the prisoners to work; but with a yell they refused.  Water was
then lowered down to them, and a couple of handfuls of biscuit were tossed
on the hatches and thus spoke to the officer: "Mr. Radney, I will not obey
     but it was to no purpose.  And in this way the two went once slowly round the
repeated; but on the fourth morning a confused wrangling, and then a
scuffling was heard, as the customary summons was delivered; and suddenly

forbearance had not the slightest effect, by an awful and unspeakable
deliberately repeated his intention not to obey.  Seeing, however, that his
commanding him to do his bidding.  Steelkilt rose, and slowly retreating
discretion.  Emboldened by this, the Captain reiterated his demand to the
rest, but Steelkilt shouted up to him a terrific hint to stop his babbling
the mutineers bolted up into the air from the desperate arms below that sought
to restrain them.  Only three were left.  "Better turn to, now?" said the
won't be flogged." "Turn to!" roared the Captain.  Steelkilt glanced round
ye, I'll keep ye there till ye're sick of it.  Down ye go." "Shall we?"

     run a muck from the bowsprit to the taffrail; and if by any devilishness of
hole at the next summoning of the garrison; and armed with their keen
mainly at Steelkilt's instigation, they had resolved to maintain the
reached port, desert her in a body.  But in order to insure the speediest end
strictest peacefulness, obey all orders to the last, and, when the ship
sign of mutiny reappeared among the rest.  On the contrary, it seemed, that
own instance they were put down in the ship's run for salvation.  Still, no
crew.  Entreaties, cuffs, and kicks could not drive them back, so at their
all hands were turned to, and, sullenly worked by the moody seamen, the iron
gag in death the vital jaw of the whale.  But though the Lakeman had induced
the seamen to adopt this sort of passiveness in their conduct, he kept his
own counsel (at least till all was over) concerning his own proper and
threat, whatever that might have been.  The three men were then cut down,
He paused: and then pausing no more, made good his word, spite of Steelkilt's
 "You are a coward!" hissed the Lakeman.  "So I am, but take that."  The mate
infatuated man sought to run more than half way to meet his doom, after the
scene at the rigging, he insisted, against the express counsel of the captain,
mumbling something about his being willing and able to do what the captain
scene.  Such was the state of his mouth, that he could hardly speak; but
other circumstances, Steelkilt systematically built the plan of his revenge.
a pale man, with a bandaged head, arrested them --Radney the chief mate.  Ever
.. <p 255 >
bulwarks of the quarter-deck, and leaning his arm upon the gunwale of the
boat which was hoisted up there, a little above the ship's side.  In this
rapidly two or three times, and then suddenly throwing down his rope, said,"I
to the voyage, they all agreed to another thing --namely, not to sing out for
Captain; who, to the amazement of all hands, started back, paced the deck
vacancy between the boat and the ship, and down between this was the sea.
whales, in case any should be discovered.  For, spite of her leak, and spite
hissed the Lakeman.  "But I must," --and the rope was once more drawn back for
frighten me" --and the Captain drew off with the rope to strike.  "Best not,"
mind it well--- if you flog me, I murder you!" "Say ye so?  then see how ye
rather oddish," said the Lakeman, holding it at arm's length before him;
     and let us hear what he can say for himself."  For a moment the exhausted

into a doze, verbally opened their souls to each other in three sentences;
a sailor.  "Why not?  Do you think he won't do me a turn, when it's to help
heads sideways, as the two crucified thieves are drawn.  "My wrist is
quietly, and asked him for some twine to mend his hammock.  It was given him
of the two traitors, till they yelled no more, but lifelessly hung their
administered in the vernacular.  "But as for you, ye carrion rogues," turning
--justice demanded it; but for the present, considering their timely
surrender; and thereby secure whatever small chance of pardon such conduct
the grave always ready dug to the seaman's hand --that fatal hour was then to
summoned all hands; and separating those who had rebelled from those who had
before them, "the vultures would not touch ye, ye villains!"  At sunrise he
the fore-ordaining soul of Steelkilt, the mate was already stark and
stretched as a corpse, with his forehead crushed in.  But, gentlemen, a fool
collared, and dragged along the deck like dead cattle; and, side by side,
honor of securing a man who had been fully ripe for murder.  But all these were
.. <p 254 >
     the forecastle.  In a few minutes the scuttle was opened, and, bound hand
the morning of the second day, when they were washing down the decks, that
other, in the matter; and both of them could not be first, for the ladder

was Moby Dick.  "Moby Dick!" cried Don Sebastian; "St.  Dominic!  Sir sailor,
but do whales have christenings?  Whom call you Moby Dick?" "A very white,
and bound the sleeper with cords, and gagged him with cords; and shrieked
Rad;" and he rose to go aft.  "You don't mean to go a begging to him!" said
mixed their before secret treacheries together; and when their leader fell
Sirs." "The chicha!  the chicha!" cried Don Pedro; "our vigorous friend
after, his trick at the silent helm --nigh to the man who was apt to doze over
in order to be the first of the three, though the last of the ten, to
fifty yards of the ship --forgetful of the compact among the crew --in the
leader, each in his own separate soul had suddenly lighted, it would seem,
involuntarily lifted his voice for the monster, though for some little time
past it had been plainly beheld from the three sullen mast-heads.  All was now
a stupid Teneriffe man, drawing water in the main-chains, all at once
     But to this their leader as fiercely objected, reserving that priority for
to capture so famous and precious a fish; while the dogged crew eyed askance,

     they swore they were ready for that, or for any other mad thing, for
a horizontal spangling sun, shifted and glistened like a living opal in the
blue morning sea.  Gentlemen, a strange fatality pervades the whole career of
these events, as if verily mapped out before the world itself was charted.

.. <p 258 >
up with his lance in the prow, and haul in or slacken the line, at the word
would come round at two o'clock, in the morning of the third day from that in
which he had been betrayed.  At his leisure, he employed the interval in
into the sea, on the other flank of the whale.  He struck out through the
mate.  That instant, as he fell on the whale's slippery back, the boat
righted, and was dashed aside by the swell, while Radney was tossed over
Auto-da-Fes in Lima now," said one of the company to another: "I fear our
sailor friend runs risk of the archiepiscopacy.  Let us withdraw more out of
the Evangelists," said Don Sebastian, gravely, returning with a tall and
solemn figure.  "Let me remove my hat.  Now, venerable priest, further into
the largest sized Evangelists you can." "This is the priest, he brings you
be so good as to bring the priest also, Don?" "Though there are no
go for it; but are you well advised?  this may grow too serious." "Will you
in substance and its great items, true.  I know it to be true; it happened on
the light, and hold the Holy Book before me that I may touch it."
"but I know a worthy priest near by, who will quickly procure one for me.  I
 "Also bear with all of us, sir sailor; for we all join in Don Sebastian's
The ancient whale-cry upon first sighting a whale from the mast-head, still
the moonlight.  I see no need for this." "Excuse me for running after you,
     this story is in substance really true?  It is so passing wonderful!  Did you

     I shall ere long
Don." "Then I entreat you, tell me if to the best of your own convictions,
Islanders not to approach the ship at their peril, took one man with him, and
absolute body the whale is moored alongside the whale-ship so that he can be
fairly stepped upon there.  It may be worth while, therefore, previously to
of the boat's bottom, the Lakeman had slackened the line, so as to drop
but upon the island of Nantucket, the widow of Radney still turns to the sea
of the whale as he actually appears to the eye of the whaleman when in his own
present day confidently challenge the faith of the landsman.  It is time to
set the world right in this matter, by proving such pictures of the whale all
Tahitians, who had been somewhat used to the sea.  Chartering a small native
since those inventive but unscrupulous times when on the marble panellings of
temples, the pedestals of statues, and on shields, medallions, cups, and
arrived, and the captain was forced to enlist some of the more civilized
of men which the sailor headed.  They embarked; and so for ever got the start
sort of license prevailed, not only in most popular pictures of the whale,
.. <p 260 >
There, luck befriended him; two ships were about to sail for France, and
them in so heavy a vessel.  After taking counsel with his officers, he
that in the almost endless sculptures of that immemorial pagoda, all the
this ball; I trod the ship; I knew the crew; I have seen and talked with
again, and in due time arrived at Tahiti, his own place of destination.
 "A pretty scholar," laughed the Lakeman."Adios, Senor!" and leaping into the
me.  As soon as Steelkilt leaves me, I swear to beach this boat on yonder
of whaling should have been there shadowed forth.  The Hindoo whale referred
to, occurs in a separate department of the wall, depicting the incarnation of
captain.  "Cross your arms, sir; throw back your head.  Now, repeat after
Steelkilt; "no lies." "I am bound to Tahiti for more men." "Very good.  Let
of the latter, yet that small section of him is all wrong.  It looks more
like the tapering tail of an anaconda, than the broad palms of the true
trades and pursuits, every conceivable avocation of man, were prefigured ages
captain.  "Where are you bound?  and for what are you bound?" demanded
With one foot on each prow of the yoked war-canoes, the Lakeman laughed him
     On the fourth day of the sail, a large canoe was descried, which seemed to
from the sea-monster or whale.  Where did Guido get the model of such a
strange creature as that?  Nor does Hogarth, in painting the same scene in
his own Perseus Descending, make out one whit better.  The huge corpulence

inch of water.  It has a sort of howdah on its back, and its distended tusked
mouth into which the billows are rolling, might be taken for the Traitors'
Tahiti, five hundred miles distant, to procure a reinforcement to his crew.
in the prints of old Bibles and the cuts of old primers.  What shall be said
of these?  As for the book-binder's whale winding like a vine-stalk round the
paint to you as well as one can without canvas, something like the true form
six of the foremast-men deliberately deserted among the palms; eventually, as
used by whalemen in hunting the famous Gallipagos terrapin.
cannon from the bows; stacked his muskets on the poop; and warning the
anchored the ship as far off shore as possible; loaded and ran out his two
this book-binder's fish an attempt at a whale; because it was so intended
whale's majestic flukes.  But go to the old Galleries, and look now at a great
in the famous cavern-pagoda of Elephanta, in India.  The Brahmins maintain
band of whites necessitated, both by night and by day, and so extreme was the
were popularly supposed to be a species of the Leviathan.  In the vignettes
.. <p 259 >
     business of heaving down the ship to stop the leak.  But to such unresting
hot springs and cold, Saratoga and Baden-Baden, come bubbling up from his

handful, the captain called upon the Islanders to assist him in the laborious
unexhausted brain.  In the title-page of the original edition of the
title-pages of many books both old and new --that is a very picturesque but
again; but the whale eluded them, and finally wholly disappeared.  In good
distance, Moby Dick rose again, with some tatters of Radney's red woollen
purporting to be sober, scientific delineations, by those who know.  In old
astern from the whirlpool; calmly looking on, he thought his own thoughts.
stock of a descending anchor --as stamped and gilded on the backs and
when the device was first introduced.  It was introduced by an old Italian
wrong.  It may be that the primal source of all those pictorial delusions will
     A Voyage round Cape Horn into the South Seas, for the purpose of extending
, and hoisted on deck.  I doubt not the
it.  This peculiarity is strikingly evinced in the head, as in some part of
on the coast of Mexico, August,
padded animal as the insect does to the chrysalis that so roundingly envelopes
the index, middle, ring, and little finger.  But all these are permanently
mere skeleton of the whale bears the same relation to the fully invested and
any leviathan's articulated bones.  In fact, as the great Hunter says, the
of a burly-browed utilitarian old gentleman, with all Jeremy's other leading
the scientific Frederick Cuvier, brother to the famous Baron.  In
candelabra in the library of one of his executors, correctly conveys the idea
the side fin, the bones of which almost exactly answer to the bones of the
much nearer than another, but none can hit it with any very considerable
may be derived touching his true form.  Not at all.  For it is one of the more
the whale really looks like.  And the only mode in which you can derive even a
this book will be incidentally shown.  It is also very curiously displayed in
fancied, that from the naked skeleton of the stranded whale, accurate hints
contour between a young sucking whale and a full-grown Platonian Leviathan;
.. <p 265 >
element it is a thing eternally impossible for mortal man to hoist
a great naturalist, published a scientific systemized whale book, wherein are
his portrait.  The living whale, in his full majesty and significance, is
     with broken back, would correctly represent the noble animal itself in all

     PICTURES OF WHALING SCENES In connexion with the monstrous pictures of
Consider!  Most of the scientific drawings have been taken from the
Count de Lacepede,
modern, especially in Pliny, Purchas, Hackluyt, Harris, Cuvier, etc.  But I
pass that matter by.  i know of only four published outlines of the great Sperm
popular work Goldsmith's Animated Nature.  In the abridged London edition of
mistakes in depicting the whale are not so very surprising after all.
Richard III.  whales, with dromedary humps, and very savage; breakfasting on
previous chapter Colnett and Cuvier have been referred to.  Huggins's is far
better than theirs; but, by great odds, Beale's is the best.  All Beale's
lively lads with the pencil those Chinese are, many queer cups and saucers
three whales in various attitudes, capping his second chapter.  His
authentic abortions; that is, from a Chinese drawing.  And what sort of
he never had the benefit of a whaling voyage (such men seldom have), but
life-like in its general effect.  Some of the Sperm Whale drawings in J. Ross
Frederick Cuvier's Sperm Whale is not a Sperm Whale, but a squash.  Of course,
, he
Scoresby; but they are drawn on too small a scale to convey a desirable
impression.  He has but one picture of whaling scenes, and this is a sad
deficiency, because it is by such pictures only, when at all well done,
that you can derive anything like a truthful idea of the living whale as seen
mittens.  For all these reasons, then, any way you may look at it, you must
(that is to say, the Right whale), even Scoresby, a long experienced man as
not only incorrect, but the picture of the Mysticetus or Greenland whale
scenes to be anywhere found, are two large French engravings, well executed,
.. <p 266 >
.. <p 264 >
Whale is depicted in full majesty of might, just risen beneath the boat from
the profundities of the ocean, and bearing high in the air upon his back the
terrific wreck of the stoven planks.  The prow of the boat is partially
tolerable idea of his living contour, is by
unbroken, and is drawn just balancing upon the monster's spine; and standing
, Bernard Germain,
     intelligent public of schoolboys.  Then, again, in
whales, I am strongly tempted here to enter upon those still more monstrous
sea; the wooden poles of the spilled harpoons obliquely bob in it; the heads

     and, as for the narwhale, one glimpse at it is enough to amaze one, that in
the scene.  Serious fault might be found with the anatomical details of this
whale, but let that pass; since, for the life of me, I could not draw so


black weedy bulk in the sea like some mossy rock-slide from the Patagonian
cliffs.  His jets are erect, full, and black like soot; so that from so
stories of them which are to be found in certain books, both ancient and
supper cooking in the great bowels below.  Sea fowls are pecking at the small
most conscientious compilations of Natural History for the benefit of the
according to the accompanying scale, to a full grown sperm whale, would make
in his wake, and causing the slight boat to rock in the swells like a skiff
wonderfully good and true.  The half-emptied line-tub floats on the whitened
which must remain unpainted to the last.  True, one portrait may hit the mark
Go and gaze upon all the paintings in Europe, and where will you find such a
Who Garnery the painter is, or was, I know not.  But my life for it he was
by some experienced whaleman.  The French are the lads for painting action.
in Nantucket, and New Bedford, and Sag Harbor, you will come across lively
other like skrimshander articles, as the whalemen call the numerous little
ingenious contrivances they elaborately carve out of the rough material, in
ruefully contemplating his own amputation.  Throughout the Pacific, and also
sketches of whales and whaling-scenes, graven by the fishermen themselves on
at any rate; and his stump as unquestionable a stump as any you will find in
stump-speech does the poor whaleman make; but, with downcast eyes, stands
that almost omnipotent tool of the sailor, they will turn you out anything
come.  His three whales are as good whales as were ever published in Wapping,
.. <p 270 >
King of the Cannibals; and ready at any moment to rebel against him.  Now,
himself h.  durand.  one of them, though not precisely
one of the peculiar characteristics of the savage in his domestic hours, is
his wonderful patience of industry.  An ancient Hawaiian war-club or
savage as an Iroquois.  I myself am a savage; owning no allegiance but to the
exhibited
integrity) is being crunched by the jaws of the foremost whale.  Any time
net-work has been achieved; and it has cost steady years of steady
one of the boats (presumed to contain the missing leg in all its original
    

.. <p 271 >
microscopic diligence of a Leuwenhoeck submits to the inspection of a
packed in its maziness of design, as the Greek savage, Achilles's shield;
.. <p 269 >
quite as workmanlike, but as close
of the small dark slabs of the noble South Sea war-wood, are frequently met
spear-paddle, in its full multiplicity and elaboration of carving, is as
like a rearing horse.  From the ship, the smoke of the torments of the boiling
chase to whales in the distance.  The harpoons and lances lie levelled for
sleepy, the anvil-headed whale would be best.  But these knocking whales are
seldom remarkable as faithful essays.  On the spires of some old-fashioned
boat, hurriedly pushing off from this scene of activity, is about giving
they are so elevated, and besides that are to all intents and purposes so
labelled with Hands off!  you cannot examine them closely enough to decide
to quicken the activity of the excited seamen.
 (in the act of cutting-in) hove over to the monster as if to a quay; and a
Leviathan partly merged in grass, which of a windy day breaks against them in
a surf of green surges.  Then, again, in mountainous countries where the
as the vacant profile of the whale; which, so far as picturesqueness of
hall at Versailles; where the beholder fights his way, pell-mell, through the
traveller is continually girdled by amphitheatrical heights; here and there
of whales defined along the undulating ridges.  But you must be a thorough
upon their merit.  In bony, ribby regions of the earth, where at the base of
to such a sight again, you must be sure and take the exact intersecting
background, both drooping together in the breezeless air.  The effect is very
accounts.  It is a quiet noon-scene among the isles of the Pacific; a French
require a laborious re-discovery; like the Solomon islands, which still
remain incognita, though once high-ruffed Mendanna trod them and old Figuera
adapted to our present purpose, nevertheless deserves mention on other
.. <p 269 >
are these sea battle-pieces of Garnery.  The natural aptitude of the French for
as when long filled with thoughts of war the Eastern nations saw armies locked
gallery of living and breathing commotion on canvas, as in that triumphal
but in so important a matter it was certainly an oversight not to have
Northern Lights, and the successive armed kings and Emperors dash by, like a
me.  And beneath the effulgent Antarctic skies I have boarded the Argo-Navis,
the Pole with the revolutions of the bright points that first defined him to
a stiff full length of the Greenland whale, and three or four delicate
pyramid.  Even Scoresby, the justly renowned Right whaleman, after giving us
fasces of harpoons for spurs, would I could mount that whale and leap the
topmost skies, to see whether the fabled heavens with all their countless
tents really lie encamped beyond my mortal sight!
effect is concerned, is about tantamount to sketching the profile of a
from some lucky point of view you will catch passing glimpses of the profiles
only finished sketches at all capable of conveying the real spirit of the
whaleman, to see these sights; and not only that, but if you wish to return
their hours of ocean leisure.  Some of them have little boxes of
consecutive great battles of France; where every sword seems a flash of the
fine, when considered with reference to its presenting the hardy fishermen
in battle among the clouds.  Thus at the North have I chased Leviathan round
wheat.  On the second day, numbers of Right Whales were seen, who, secure
with in the forecastles of American whalers.  Some of them are done with much
you please, in the way of a mariner's fancy.  Long exile from Christendom and
But it was only the sound they made as they parted the brit which at all
     caused by the vast drifts of brit continually floating in those latitudes,
.. <p 275 >
and were stationary for a while, their vast black forms looked more like

     Slowly wading through the meadows of brit, the
Pequod still held on her way north-eastward towards the island of Java; a
and soundings there, but because of this remarkable meadow-like appearance,
lifeless masses of rock than anything else.  And as in the great hunting
maintained that all creatures of the land are of their kind in the sea; and
on a plain.  And still, at wide intervals in the silvery night, the lonely,
tall tapering masts mildly waved to that languid breeze, as three mild palms
stillness almost preternatural spread over the sea, however unattended with
That part of the sea known among whalemen as the Brazil Banks does not bear
.. <p 272n. >
that name as the Banks of Newfoundland do, because of there being shallows
visible sphere a strange spectre was seen by Daggoo from the main-mast-head.
God keep thee!  Push not off from that isle, thou canst never return!
.. <p 275 >
prow like a snow-slide, new slid from the hills.  Thus glistening for a
moment, as slowly it subsided, and sank.  Then once more arose, and silently
encompassed by all the horrors of the half known life.
soul of man there lies one insular Tahiti, full of peace and joy, but
stiletto-like cry that startled every man from his nod, the negro yelled out
carrying on eternal war since the world began.  Consider all this; and then
the White Whale!  Upon this, the seamen rushed to the yard-arms, as in
swarming-time the bees rush to the boughs.  Bare-headed in the sultry sun,
brilliance and beauty of many of its most remorseless tribes, as the dainty
to wave his orders to the helmsman, cast
hidden beneath the loveliest tints of azure.  Consider also the devilish
creatures glide under water, unapparent for the most part, and treacherously
motionless arm of Daggoo.  Whether the flitting attendance of the one still and
solitary jet had gradually worked upon Ahab, so that he was now prepared to
against the rocks, and leaves them there side by side with the split wrecks
the jungle overlays her own cubs, so the sea dashes even the mightiest whales
betrayed him; whichever way it might have been, no sooner did he distinctly
creatures which itself hath spawned.  Like a savage tigress that tossing in
for lowering.  The four boats were soon on the water; Ahab's in advance, and
ever; yet not a modern sun ever sets, but in precisely the same manner the
oars suspended, we were awaiting its reappearance, lo!  in the same spot where
it sank, once more it slowly rose.  Almost forgetting for the moment all
thoughts of Moby Dick, we now gazed at the most wondrous phenomenon which the
secret seas have hitherto revealed to mankind.  A vast pulpy mass, furlongs in
accursed shark alone can in any generic respect be said to bear comparative
gentle air impelling her keel, so that in the surrounding serenity her three
ocean, that with Portuguese vengeance had whelmed a whole world without
reach.  No perceptible face or front did it have; no conceivable token of
.. <p 274 >
unearthly, formless, chance-like apparition of life.  As with a low sucking
sound it slowly disappeared again, Starbuck still gazing at the agitated
waters where it had sunk, with a wild voice exclaimed -- Almost rather had I
insult and murder him, and pulverize the stateliest, stiffest frigate he can
augment; yet for ever and for ever, to the crack of doom, the sea will
of thousands of those who have gone upon the waters; though but a moment's
waves whispered together as they softly ran on; in this profound hush of the
disasters have immemorially and indiscriminately befallen tens and hundreds
analogy to him.  But though, to landsmen in general, the native inhabitants
have connected with the sight of this object, certain it is, that a glimpse
of it being so very unusual, that circumstance has gone far to invest it with
portentousness.  So rarely is it beheld, that though one and all of them
countries of India, the stranger at a distance will sometimes pass on the
them have any but
feet of Korah and his company the live ground opened and swallowed them up for
parts, with the same sort of life that lives in a dog or a horse.  Indeed, in
species of whales find their food above water, and may be seen by man in the
they believe it to furnish to the sperm whale his only food.  For though other
believe that such bulky masses of overgrowth can possibly be instinct, in all
first time beholds this species of the leviathans of the sea.  And even when
precisely, that food consists.  At times, when closely pursued, he will
leaving so much as a widow.  That same ocean rolls now; that same ocean
the monster to which these arms belonged ordinarily clings by them to the bed
thus exhibited exceeding twenty and thirty feet in length.  They fancy that
where the Right Whale is often chased.
with teeth in order to attack and tear it.  There seems some ground to imagine
whale-ships ever beheld, and returned to their ports to tell of it.  But

.. < chapter lx 26  THE LINE >
.. <p 277 >
or layers of concentric spiralizations, without any hollow but the heart,
more pliable to the rope-maker, and also renders the rope itself more
resting crosswise upon the loom or handle of every man's oar, so that it jogs
the extreme pointed prow of the boat, where a wooden pin or skewer the size
dragged down after him into the profundity of the sea; and in that case no
does, he would not stop there, for the doomed boat would infallibly be
arrangement is indispensable for common safety's sake; for were the lower end
the bows, it continues its way to the gunwale still a little further aft,
first boat always hovers at hand to assist its consort.  Second: This
like a mug of ale, as it were, from the one boat to the other; though the
attached to the harpoon.  In these instances, the whale of course is shifted
from the bottom against the side of the tub, and hanging over its edge
mystifications too tedious to detail.  Thus the whale-line folds the whole
are exposed; the lower end terminating in an eye-splice or loop coming up
critical ice, which will bear up a considerable distributed weight, but
that to the timid eye of the landsman, they seem as Indian jugglers, with
the deadliest snakes sportively festooning their limbs.  Nor can any son of
are but one half-inch in thickness; for the bottom of the whale-boat is like
of proportionate depth, makes a rather bulky freight for a craft whose planks
.. <p 279 >
block towards the tub, so as in the act of coiling to free it from all
give it compactness and gloss.  Of late years the Manilla rope has in the
quiver in him like a shaken jelly.  Yet habit --strange thing!  what cannot
habit accomplish? --Gayer sallies, more merry mirth, better jokes, and brighter
repartees, you never heard over your mahogany, than you will hear over the
half-inch white cedar of the whale-boat, when thus hung in hangman's nooses;
its tub.  Some harpooneers will consume almost an entire morning in this
leg, or entire body off, the utmost precaution is used in stowing the line in
neck, as you may say.  Perhaps a very little thought will now enable you to
logger-head there, is again carried forward the entire length of the boat,
but so as to form one round, cheese-shaped mass of densely bedded sheaves,
hundred and twenty pounds; so that the whole rope will bear a strain nearly
is like being seated in the midst of the manifold whizzings of a steam-engine
in full play, when every flying beam, and shaft, and wheel, is grazing you.
By experiment its one and fifty yarns will each suspend a weight of one
Circassian to behold.  The whale line is only two thirds of an inch in
the other, without the slightest warning; and only by a certain
self-adjusting buoyancy and simultaneousness of volition and action, can you
a dusky, dark fellow, a sort of Indian; but Manilla is as a golden-haired
American fishery almost entirely superseded hemp as a material for
apparently precedes
be described, as well as for the better understanding of all similar scenes
by no means adds to the rope's durability or strength, however much it may
circumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow in his bones to
contains it in itself, as the seemingly harmless rifle holds the fatal powder,
against his wrist in rowing; and also passing between the men, as they
case of ordinary ropes; for while tar, as ordinarily used, makes the hemp
for, indeed, the calm is but the wrapper and envelope of the storm; and
.. <p 278 >
silently serpentines about the oarsmen before being brought into actual play --
the upper end of the line is taken aft from the tub, and passing round the
this dangerous affair.  But why say more?  All men live enveloped in
town-crier would ever find her again.  Before lowering the boat for the chase,
     With reference to the whaling scene shortly to
when caught in the swift, sudden turn of death, that mortals realize the
whale-lines.  All are born with halters round their necks; but it is only

.. < chapter lxi 17  STUBB KILLS A WHALE >
bow of his hoisted boat, then you quick see him 'parm whale.  The next day
boys --that's all.  Start her!  Woo-hoo!  Wa-hee!  screamed the Gay-Header in
reply, raising some old war-whoop to the skies; as every oarsman in the
grinning devils, and raise the buried dead perpendicular out of their graves,
cucumbers is the word --easy, easy --only start her like grim death and
Start her, Tash, my boy --start her, all; but keep cool, keep cool--
started into wakefulness; and more than a score of voices from all parts of
smacking his lips over a mouthful of Grenadier's steak.  And thus with oars
spoke.  start her, now; give 'em the long and strong stroke, tashtego.
strained boat involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous leading
jeopardy, he was going head out; that part obliquely projecting from the
stroke which the eager Indian gave.
assault.  Yes, a mighty change had come over the fish.  All alive to his
van, still encouraged his men to the onset, all the while puffing the smoke
line.  An instant before, Stubb had swiftly caught two additional turns with
play.  And still puffing at his pipe, Stubb cheered on his crew to the
his sounding had elapsed, the whale rose again, and being now in advance of
igniting his pipe, for now a respite was granted.  After the full interval of
an announcement immediately followed by Stubb's producing his match and
of Stubb's hands, from which the hand-cloths, or squares of quilted canvas
sometimes worn at these times, had accidentally dropped.  It was like holding
monster perpendicularly flitted his tail forty feet into the air, and then
their indolent crests; and across the wide trance of the sea, east nodded to
stubb to the tub oarsman (him seated by the tub) who, snatching off his hat,
.. <p 283 >
all fins.  Stubb and Tashtego here changed places -- stem for stern --a
like Ontario Indians on the gunwales of the boats,
main and mizen mast-heads were already drowsy.  So that at last all three of
but with such a steady tranquillity, and making so few ripples as he swam,
ere the boats were down, majestically turning, he swam away to the leeward,
keels -- one cleaving the water, the other the air --as the boat churned
brine into the air.  clear away the boats!  luff!  cried Ahab.  And obeying
on through both opposing elements at once.  A continual cascade played at the
accustomed cry, as the great fish slowly and regularly spouted the sparkling
canted over her spasmodic gunwale into the sea.  Thus they rushed; each man
fro I idly swayed in what seemed an enchanted air.  No resolution could
like a pacing tiger in his cage.  Ka-la!  Koo-loo!  howled Queequeg, as if
close under our lee, not forty fathoms off, a gigantic Sperm Whale lay rolling
gracious agency preserved me; with a shock I came back to life.  And lo!
closed eyes; like vices my hands grasped the shrouds; some invisible,
somewhat slackened his flight.  Haul in --haul in!  cried Stubb to the
staggering business truly in that rocking commotion.  From the vibrating line
fewer glimpses of porpoises, dolphins, flying-fish, and other vivacious
forgetfulness altogether came over me, I had noticed that the seamen at the
striving to wrest it out of your clutch.  Wet the line!  wet the line!  cried
.. <p 282 >
denizens of more stirring waters, than those off the Rio de la Plata, or the
in blood, which bubbled and seethed for furlongs behind in their wake.  The
monster like brooks down a hill.  His tormented body rolled not in brine but
reflection into every face, so that they all glowed to each other like red
slanting sun playing upon this crimson pond in the sea, sent back its
welcome cry was heard -- Stand up, Tashtego! --give it to him!  The harpoon was
with might and main clinging to his seat, to prevent being tossed to the
went hot and hissing along every one of their wrists.  It was the magical
.. <p 286 >
at one and the same time.  In this straining, bawling state, then, with his
back to the fish, all at once the exhausted harpooneer hears the exciting cry
contracting his spout-hole, with sharp, cracking, agonized respirations.  At
could hook it out.  But that gold watch he sought was the innermost life of
muscles are strained and half started --what that is none know but those who
the fish.  And now it is struck; for, starting
turn round on his centre half way, seize his harpoon from the crotch, and
.. <p 287 >

of them actually burst their blood-vessels in the boat; no wonder that some
sperm whalemen are absent four years with four barrels; no wonder that to
keep shouting at the top of one's compass, while all the other
that makes the voyage, and if you take the breath out of his body how can
whale.  No wonder, taking the whole fleet of whalemen in a body, that out of
rowing, but by repeated loud and intrepid exclamations; and what it is to
expected to pull his oar meanwhile to the uttermost; indeed, he is expected
feet.  But however prolonged and exhausting the chase, the harpooneer is
then they change places; and the headsman, the chief officer of the little
dart, the heavy implement has to be flung to the distance of twenty or thirty
     A word concerning an incident in the last
headsman should stay in the bows from first to last; he should both dart the
harpoon and the lance, and no rowing whatever should be expected of him,

sometimes involve a slight loss of speed in the chase; but long experience in
various whalemen of more than one nation has convinced me that in the vast
.. < chapter lxii 19  THE DART >
.. <p 286 >
that has caused them.  To insure the greatest efficiency in the dart, the
harpooneers of this world must start to their feet from out of idleness, and
Partly to show the indispensableness of this act, it may here be stated,
.. <p 284n. >
have tried it.  For one, I cannot bawl very heartily and work very recklessly
obliquely elevating his head, he thereby may be said to transform himself
he elevates it in the air, and invariably does so when going at his utmost
of them, the twigs.  So, in productive subjects, grow the chapters.  The crotch
It will be seen in some other place of what a very light substance the entire
stick of a peculiar form, some two feet in length, which is perpendicularly
inserted into the starboard gunwale near the bow, for the purpose of
.. <p 283n. >
naked, barbed end slopingly projects from the prow.  Thereby the weapon is
instantly at hand to its hurler, who snatches it up as readily from its rest
a moment, stood thoughtfully eyeing the vast corpse he had made.
Mr. Stubb, said Daggoo.  Yes; both pipes smoked out!  and withdrawing his
irons.  But these two harpoons, each by its own cord, are both connected with
the line; the object being this: to dart them both, if possible, one
last, gush after gush of clotted red gore, as if it had been the purple lees
from a bluff-bowed sluggish galliot into a sharp-pointed New York
the chances.  But it very often happens that owing to the instantaneous,
violent, convulsive running of the whale upon receiving the first iron, it
boiling spray, so that the imperilled craft, instantly dropping astern, had
horribly wallowed in his blood, over-wrapped himself in impenetrable, mad,
iron is already connected with the line, and the line is running, hence that
somehow and somewhere; else the most terrible jeopardy would involve all
weapon must, at all events, be anticipatingly tossed out of the boat,
from his trance into that unspeakable thing called his flurry, the monster
most instances, prudently practicable.  But this critical act is not always
unattended with the saddest and most fatal casualties.  Furthermore: you must
you expect to find it there when most wanted!  Again, if the dart be
with what little strength may remain, he essays to pitch it somehow into the
all engaging one unusually strong, active, and knowing whale; when owing to
captured and a corpse.  Consider, now, how it must be in the case of four boats
of affairs.  One small, helping cause of all this liveliness in Stubb, was
intemperately fond of the whale as a flavorish thing to his palate.  A steak,
official superior, quietly resigned to him for the time the sole management
.. <p 291 >
conquest, betrayed an unusual but still good-natured excitement.  Such an
general thing, and according to the great military maxim, make the enemy
defray the current expenses of the war (at least before realizing the
proceeds of the voyage), yet now and then you find some of these Nantucketers
several harpoons to bend on to the line should the first one be ineffectually
least so far as could be known on deck, Stubb, his second mate, flushed with
clanking links, the vast corpse itself, not the ship, is to be moored.  Tied
oil, Stubb stoutly stood up to his spermaceti supper at the capstan-head,
along the deck, and thrust rattling out of the port-holes.  But by those
soon made strangely manifest.  Stubb was a high liver; he was somewhat
     all that would not one jot advance his grand, monomaniac object.  Very soon

smackingly feasted on its fatness.  The few sleepers below in their bunks were
often startled by the sharp slapping of their tails against the hull, within
in him; as if the sight of that dead body reminded him that Moby Dick was
see them (as before you heard them) wallowing in the sullen, black waters,
dead, some vague dissatisfaction, or impatience, or despair, seemed working
the whale of the bigness of a human head.  This particular feat of the shark
seems all but miraculous.  How, at such an apparently unassailable surface,
they contrive to gouge out such symmetrical mouthfuls, remains a part of the
universal problem of all things.  The mark they thus leave on the whale, may
evinced his customary activity, to call it so; yet now that the creature was
morning.  Though, in overseeing the pursuit of this whale, Captain Ahab had
sharks will be seen longingly gazing up to the ship's decks, like hungry dogs
round a table where red meat is being carved, ready to bolt down every killed
.. <p 290 >

.. <p 292 >
thus cannibally carving each other's live meat with carving-knives all gilded
and tasselled, the sharks, also, with their jewel-hilted mouths, are
junk at the rate of a mile an hour; but this grand argosy we towed heavily
whale's flesh that night.  Mingling their mumblings with his own mastications,
same thing, that is to say, a shocking sharkish business enough for all
China, four or five laborers on the foot-path will draw a bulky freighted
ships crossing the Atlantic, systematically trotting alongside, to be handy
in case a parcel is to be carried anywhere, or a dead slave to be decently
as we eighteen men with our thirty-six arms, and one hundred and eighty
touching the set terms, places, and occasions, when sharks do most socially
congregate, and most hilariously feast; yet is there no conceivable time or
distance from the ship.  It was a calm; so, forming a tandem of three boats,
more jovial spirits, than around a dead sperm whale, moored by night to a
whale-ship at sea.  If you have never seen that sight, then suspend your
     Stubb's whale had been killed some

banquet that was going on so nigh him, no more than the sharks heeded the
darted without recovery.  All these particulars are faithfully narrated here,
he cried at length, widening his legs still further, as if to form a more
secure base for his supper; and, at the same time darting his fork into the
.. < chapter lxiv 16  STUBB'S SUPPER >
his warm hammock at a most unseasonable hour, came shambling along from his
the old black, not in any very high glee at having been previously routed from
.. <p 289 >
Fleece, as they called him, came shuffling and limping along, assisting his
as they will not fail to elucidate several most important, however intricate
iron hoops; this old Ebony floundered along, and in obedience to the word of
step with his tongs, which, after a clumsy fashion, were made of straightened
smacking of his own epicurean lips.  Cook, cook! --where's that old Fleece?
when,
who have a genuine relish for that particular part of the Sperm Whale
with both hands folded before him, and resting on his two-legged cane, he
you to turn the whole affair upside down, it would still be pretty much the
'em they are welcome to help themselves civilly, and in moderation, but they
and rare?  What a shindy they are kicking up!  Cook, go and talk to 'em; tell
full, and dare bellies is bottomless; and when dey do get em full, dey wont
can't hear not'ing at all, no more, for eber and eber.  Upon my soul, I am
hear you den; for den dey sink in de sea, go fast to sleep on de coral, and
lantern, old Fleece limped across the deck to the bulwarks; and then, with
his shrill voice, and cried -- Cussed fellow-critters!  Kick up de damndest
my supper.  Upon this, Fleece, holding both hands over the fishy mob, raised
row as ever you can; fill your dam' bellies 'till dey bust --and den die.
Christianity; go on.  No use goin' on; de dam willains will keep a
scrougin' and slappin' each oder, Massa Stubb; dey don't hear one word; no
small bellies; so dat de brigness ob de mout is not to swallar wid, but to
berry brig mout, brigger dan oders; but den de brig mouts sometimes has de
Don't be tearin' de blubber out your neighbour's mout, I say.  Is not one
desired position.  Well, said Stubb, helping himself freely meanwhile; I
shall now go back to the subject of this steak.  In the first place, how old
sharks, sartin; but if you gobern de shark in you, why den you be angel; for
and can't be helped; but to gobern dat wicked natur, dat is de pint.  You is
     Talk to 'em gentlemanly.  Once more the sermon proceeded.  Your
muttered.  And have you lived in this world hard upon one hundred years,
cook, and don't know yet how to cook a whale-steak?  rapidly bolting another

question.  Where were you born, cook? 'Hind de hatchway, in ferry-boat,
goin' ober de Roanoke.  Born in a ferry-boat!  That's queer, too.  But I want
to know what country you were born in, cook?  Didn't I say de Roanoke
bitin' dare?  Cook, cried Stubb, collaring him, I wont have that swearing.
de tail!  How you tink to hear, 'spose you keep up such a dam slappin' and
know how to cook a whale-steak yet.  Bress my soul, if I cook noder one, he
growled, angrily, turning round to depart.  Come back, cook; --here, hand me
those tongs; --now take that bit of steak there, and tell me if you think that
steak cooked as it should be?  Take it, I say --holding the tongs towards him
.. <p 294 >
Stubb, approvingly, coax 'em to it; try that, and Fleece continued.  Do
berry joosy.  Cook, said Stubb, squaring himself once more; do you
belong to the church?  Passed one once in Cape-Down, said the old man
sullenly.  And you have once in your life passed a holy church in Cape-Town,
use a-preachin' to such dam g'uttons as you call 'em, till dare bellies is
go on, go on.  Well, den, Belubed fellow-critters: -- Right!  exclaimed
     Who dat?  Den preach to him yourself, sullenly turning to go.  No, Cook;

.. <p 296 >
can fill your dam bellies up to de hatchings, but by Gor!  you must stop dat
dare.  you hear?  stop dat dam smackin' ob de lip!  massa Stubb say dat you
one hand dropping his light low over the sea, so as to get a good view of
     Fellow-critters: I'se ordered here to say dat you must stop dat dam noise
to!  I mean when you die, cook.  It's an awful question.  Now what's your
whole air and demeanor, he hisself won't go nowhere; but some bressed angel

where you doubtless overheard a holy parson addressing his hearers as his
will come and fetch him.  Fetch him?  How?  In a coach and four, as they
you stood before, there, over against me, and pay particular attention.
you expect to go up into our main-top, do you, cook, when you are dead?

Hold the steak in one hand, and show a live coal to it with the other; that
as you may say; this seems so outlandish a thing that one must needs go a
grizzled head, as if to get both ears in front at one and the same time.
centuries ago the tongue of the Right Whale was esteemed a great delicacy in
     That mortal man should feed upon
little into the history and philosophy of it.  It is upon record, that three
admirable sauce to be eaten with barbacued porpoises, which, you remember,

eating.  The meat is made into balls about the size of billiard balls, and
being well seasoned and spiced might be taken for turtle-balls or veal balls.
.. < chapter lxv 12  THE WHALE AS A DISH >
     body, is at last locked fast round the smallest part of the tail, at the
porpoise grant from the crown.  The fact is, that among his hunters at least,
the creature that feeds his lamp, and, like Stubb, eat him by his own light,


of men like Stubb, nowadays partake of
     other end is secured to the ship.  By adroit management the wooden float is

cooked whales; but the Esquimaux are not so fastidious.  We all know how they
live upon whales, and have rare old vintages of prime old train oil.
cannot get at it from the boat, in order to put the chain round it.  But
causes it to sink low beneath the surface; so that with the hand you
that certain Englishmen, who long ago were accidentally left in Greenland by
A little item may as well be related here.  The strongest and most reliable
.. <p 290n. >
blubber.  Among the Dutch whalemen these scraps are called fritters; which,
indeed, they greatly resemble, being brown and crisp, and smelling
something like old Amsterdam housewives' dough-nuts or oly-cooks, when fresh.
Shark hisself, muttered the old man, limping away; with which sage
'stead of him eat whale.  I'm bressed if he ain't more of shark dan Massa
dish, is his exceeding richness.  He is the great prize ox of the sea, too
fat to be delicately good.  Look at his hump, which would be as fine eating
keep his hands off.  But what further depreciates the whale as a civilized
     Whale-balls for breakfast --don't forget.  Wish, by gor!  whale eat him,
pyramid of fat.  But the spermaceti itself, how bland and creamy that is;
like the transparent, half-jellied, white meat of a cocoanut in the third

But Fleece had hardly got three paces off, when he was recalled.  Cook, give
is a common thing for the seamen to dip their ship-biscuit into the huge
oil-pots and let them fry there awhile.  Many a good supper have I thus made.
substance, and then partaking of it.  In the long try watches of the night it
.. <p 297 >
lobes being withdrawn (precisely resembling two large puddings), they are
the fish, be sure you stand by to get the tips of his fins; have them put in
the whale would by all hands be considered a noble dish, were there not so
done, dish it; d'ye hear?  And now to-morrow, cook, when we are cutting in
time, a certain cook of the court obtained a handsome reward for inventing an
then mixed with flour, and cooked into a most delectable mess, in flavor

     consideration before mentioned: i.  e.  that a man should eat a newly murdered
and if he had been put on his trial by oxen, he certainly would have been;
diminished, by vigorously stirring them up with sharp whaling-spades, a
procedure notwithstanding, which, in some instances, only seems to tickle
so largely abound, their wondrous voracity can be at times considerably
sights, to have looked over her side that night, would have almost thought
the whole round sea was one huge cheese, and those sharks the maggots in it.
morning.  In most other parts of the ocean, however, where these fish do not
hours, say, on a stretch, little more than the skeleton would be visible by
Pacific, this plan will not answer at all; because such incalculable hosts
suspending the cutting stages over the side, and lowering three lanterns, so
deck to see that all goes well.  But sometimes, especially upon the Line in the
about it.  Therefore, the common usage is to take in all sail; lash the helm
laborious one; is not very soon completed; and requires all hands to set
them into still greater activity.  But it was not thus in the present case
pate-de-foie-gras.  But Stubb, he eats the whale by its own light, does he?
     When in the Southern Fishery, a

brought about new revelations of the incredible ferocity of the foe.  They
coming famine; it will be more tolerable for that provident Fejee, I say, in
flexible bows, bent round, and bit their own; till those entrails seemed
swallowed over and over again by the same mouth, to be oppositely voided by
the gaping wound.  Nor was this all.  It was unsafe to meddle with the corpses
.. < chapter lxvi 2  THE SHARK MASSACRE >
.. <p 300 >
individual life had departed.  Killed and hoisted on deck for the sake of his
skin, one of these sharks almost took poor Queequeg's hand off, when he
tried to shut down the dead lid of his murderous jaw.  Queequeg no care what
Secretary of the Society for the Suppression of Cruelty to Ganders formally
fat goose?  With a feather of the same fowl.  And with what quill did the
one dam Ingin.
and that is adding insult to injury, is it?  Look at your knife-handle,
murdering of the sharks, by striking the keen steel deep into their skulls,
the bigness of a man's spread hand; and in general shape, corresponds to
the garden implement after which it is named; only its sides are perfectly
two mariners, darting their long whaling-spades, kept up an incessant
for the Fejee that salted down a lean missionary in his cellar against a
a Saturday night and see the crowds of live bipeds staring up at the long rows
thirty feet long, is inserted for a handle.
and he certainly deserved it if any murderer does.  Go to the meat-market of
viciously snapped, not only at each other's disembowelments, but like
with the Pequod's sharks; though, to be sure, any man unaccustomed to such

.. <p 303 >
and the huge lower block of the tackles was swung over the whale; to this
at last, a swift, startling snap is heard; with a great swash the ship rolls
moment
or two the prodigious blood-dripping mass sways to and fro as if let down from
swings, else it may box his ears and pitch him headlong overboard.  One of
grazes the main-top; the men at the windlass then cease heaving, and for a
     it is all the time being hoisted higher and higher aloft till its upper end

accomplished swordsman, warning all hands to stand off, once more makes a
hold upon the blubber, in order to prepare for what follows.  Whereupon, this
on her side; every bolt in her starts like the nail-heads of an old house in
scientific dash at the mass, and with a few sidelong, desperate, lunging
and just as fast as it is thus peeled off, and indeed by that very act itself,
     scarf, simultaneously cut by the spades of Starbuck and Stubb, the mates;
and while the one tackle is peeling and hoisting a second strip from the
slicings, severs it completely in twain; so that while the short lower part
the sky, and every one present must take good heed to dodge it when it

and as the blubber in one strip uniformly peels off along the line called the
serpents.  And thus the work proceeds; the two tackles hoisting and lowering
simultaneously; both whale and windlass heaving, the heavers singing, the
orange, so is it stripped off from the body precisely as an orange is
blubber.  Now as the blubber envelopes the whale precisely as the rind does an
armed with their long spades, began cutting a hole in the body for the
frosty weather; she trembles, quivers, and nods her frighted mast-heads to
block the great blubber hook, weighing some one hundred pounds, was attached.
     a broad, semicircular line is cut round the hole, the hook is inserted, and
not unvexed subject, the skin of the whale.  I have had controversies about it
through the main hatchway right beneath, into an unfurnished parlor called the

grapes was swayed up to the main-top and firmly lashed to the lower mast-head,
his blubber is.  That blubber is something of the consistence of firm,
question is, what and where is the skin of the whale?  Already you know what
the attending harpooneers now advances with a long, keen weapon called a
with experienced whalemen afloat, and learned naturalists ashore.
whale, the other is slowly slackened away, and down goes the first strip
and soft as satin; that is, previous to being dried, when it not only
any rate, it is pleasant to read about whales through their own spectacles,
contracts and thickens, but becomes rather hard and brittle.  I have several
other phenomena which the exterior of the Sperm Whale presents, he not
allusion to the Indian rocks reminds me of another thing.  Besides all the
part of the regular linear appearance, by reason of numerous rude scratches,
seldom displays the back, and more especially his flanks, effaced in great
a plate representing the old Indian characters chiselled on the famous
the hieroglyphics upon one Sperm Whale in particular, I was much struck with
full-grown bulls of the species.  A word or two more concerning this matter
marks do not seem to be impressed upon the isinglass substance above
stript from him in long pieces, called blanket-pieces.  Like most sea-terms,
the proper skin of the tremendous whale is thinner and more tender than the
array, something like those in the finest Italian line engravings.  But these
better, an Indian poncho slipt over his head, and skirting his extremity.  It
is by reason of this cosy blanketing of his body, that the whale is enabled to
keep himself comfortable in all weathers, in all seas, times, and tides.
skin of the skin, so to speak; for it were simply ridiculous to say, that
.. <p 305 >
exceedingly brisk in those Hyperborean waters; but these, be it observed, are
the least among the many marvels he presents.  Almost invariably it is all
the north, if unsupplied with his cosy surtout?  True, other fish are found
of whose mere
is considered that, in quantity, or rather weight, that oil, in its expressed
Sperm Whale, will yield the bulk of one hundred barrels of oil; and, when it
then --except after explanation --that this great monster, to whom corporeal
those rocks must not a little resemble the Sperm Whale in this particular.  It
this one is very happy and significant.  For the whale is
warmth is as indispensable as it is to man; how wonderful that he should be
violent scraping contact with vast floating icebergs --I should say, that
as you may say.  But what I am driving at here is this.  That same infinitely
negro in summer.  It does seem to me, that herein we see the rare virtue of a
when seamen fall overboard, they are sometimes found, months afterwards,
your cold-blooded, lungless fish, whose very bellies are refrigerators;

     O man!  in all seasons a temperature of thine own.  But how easy and how
Peter's!  of creatures, how few vast as the whale!
azure sky, upon the fair face of the pleasant sea, wafted by the joyous
breezes, that great mass of death floats on and on, till lost in infinite
black or speckled.  In life but few of them would have helped the whale, I
perspectives.  There's a most doleful and most mocking funeral!  The
sea-vultures all in pious mourning, the air-sharks all punctiliously in
stationary ship that hideous sight is seen.  Beneath the unclouded and mild
of fowls, augment the murderous din.  For hours and hours from the almost
they most piously do pounce.  Oh, horrible vultureism of earth!  from which
every rod that it so floats, what seem square roods of sharks and cubic roods
     fowls, whose beaks are like so many insulting poniards in the whale.  The
straightway the whale's unharming corpse, with trembling fingers is set down
in the log -- shoals, rocks, and breakers hereabouts: beware!  And for
timid man-of-war or blundering discovery-vessel from afar, when the distance

insatiate sharks, and the air above vexed with rapacious flights of screaming
vacuum, because their leader originally leaped there when a stick was held.
floats more and more away, the water round it torn and splashed by the
astern!  The vast tackles have now done their duty.  The peeled white body of
     Haul in the chains!  Let the carcase go
his death his ghost becomes a powerless panic to a world.  Are you a believer
in ghosts, my friend?  There are other ghosts than the Cock-Lane one, and far
in life the great whale's body may have been a real terror to his foes, in

.. < chapter lxix 2  THE FUNERAL >
.. < chapter lxx 14  THE SPHYNX >
.. <p 307 >
previous to completely stripping the body of the leviathan, he was beheaded.
years afterwards,
ween, if peradventure he had needed it; but upon the banquet of his funeral
.. <p 309 >
ever-contracting gash thus made, he must skilfully steer clear of all
quarter-deck, he paused to gaze over the side, then slowly getting into the
main-chains he took Stubb's long spade --still remaining there after the
subterraneous manner, without so much as getting one single peep into the
noiseless measureless leaves upon the sea.  A short space elapsed, and up into
calm, like a universal yellow lotus, was more and more unfolding its
accomplished it was noon, and the seamen went below to their dinner.  Silence
seemed the Sphynx's in the desert.  Speak, thou vast and venerable head,
muttered Ahab, which, though ungarnished with a beard, yet here and there
giant Holofernes's from the girdle of Judith.  When this last task was
that is in thee.  Of all divers, thou hast dived the deepest.
side --about half way out of the sea, so that it might yet in great part be
decapitated and the body stripped, the head was hoisted against the ship's
attempt weighing a Dutch barn in jewellers' scales The Pequod's whale being
bones of millions of the drowned; there, in that awful water-land, there was
even by the immense tackles of a whaler, this were as vain a thing as to
slept by many a sailor's side, where sleepless mothers would give their lives
this noiselessness came Ahab alone from his cabin.  Taking a few turns on the
thy most familiar home.  Thou hast been where bell or diver never went; hast
is hoisted on deck to be deliberately disposed of.  But, with a full grown
cable till the body is stripped.  That done, if it belong to a small whale it
deeper midnight of the insatiate maw; and his murderers still sailed on
to lay them down.  Thou saw'st the locked lovers when leaping from their
unharmed --while swift lightnings shivered the neighboring ship that would have
when tossed by pirates from the midnight deck; for hours he fell into the
whale's decapitation --and striking it into the lower part of the
     That lively cry upon this deadly calm might almost convert a better man.
--Where away?  Three points on the starboard bow, sir, and bringing down her
be made.  Here be it said, that like the vessels of military marines, the
breeze to us!  Better and better, man.  Would now St.  Paul would come along
could not hope to reach her.  So the signal was set to see what response would
ships of the American Whale Fleet have each a private signal; all which
mast-heads proved her a whale-ship.  but as she was so far to windward, and
blew on; but the breeze came faster than the ship, and soon the Pequod began
responded to by the stranger's setting her own; which proved the ship to be
shooting by, apparently making a passage to some other ground, the Pequod
side-ladder was being rigged by Starbuck's order to accommodate the visiting
signals being collected in a book with the names of the respective vessels
     Hand in hand, ship and breeze
Jeroboam had a malignant epidemic on board, and that Mayhew, her captain,
smallest atom stirs or lives on matter, but has its cunning duplicate in
the Jeroboam of Nantucket.  Squaring her yards, she bore down, ranged abeam

.. < chapter lxxi 2  THE JEROBOAM'S STORY >
adhering to the timid quarantine of the land, he peremptorily refused to come
communication.  Preserving an interval of some few yards between itself and
into direct contact with the Pequod.  But this did by no means prevent all
the
.. <p 311 >
parallel to the Pequod, as she heavily forged through the sea (for by this
time it blew very fresh), with her main-topsail aback; though, indeed, at
times by the sudden onset of a large rolling wave, the boat would be pushed
token of that proceeding being entirely unnecessary.  It turned out that the
was fearful of infecting the Pequod's company.  For, though himself and boat's
under the Pequod's lee, and lowered a boat; it soon drew nigh; but, as the
without still another interruption of a very different sort.  Pulling an oar

Nantucket, where, with that cunning peculiar to craziness, he assumed a
So soon as this figure had been first descried, Stubb had exclaimed -- That's
for the Jeroboam's whaling voyage.  They engaged him;
man among her crew, some time previous when the Pequod spoke the Town-Ho.
instead of containing gunpowder, was supposed to be charged with laudanum.  A
descended from heaven by the way of a trap-door, announcing the speedy
great prophet; in their cracked, secret meetings having several times
he set himself forth as the deliverer of the isles of the sea and
rolled up on his wrists.  A deep, settled, fanatic delirium was in his eyes.
steady, common sense exterior and offered himself as a green-hand candidate
     Stubb here alluded to a strange story told of the Jeroboam, and a certain
an atmosphere of sacredness.  Moreover, they were afraid of him.  As such a
man, however, was not of much practical use in the ship, especially as he
refused to work except when he pleased, the incredulous captain would fain
vicar-general of all Oceanica.  The unflinching earnestness with which he
strange, apostolic whim having seized him, he had left Neskyeuna for
a god.  Such things may seem incredible; but, however wondrous, they are

Beware of the horrible plague!  Gabriel, Gabriel!  cried Captain Mayhew;
ahead, and its seethings drowned all speech.  Hast thou seen the White Whale?
demanded Ahab, when the boat drifted back.  Think, think of thy whale-boat,
ever; declaring that the plague, as he called it, was at his sole command;
mates; and since the epidemic had broken out, he carried a higher hand than
said for some moments, while a succession of riotous waves rolled by, which
Gabriel started to his feet.  Think, think of the fevers, yellow and bilious!
.. <p 314 >
Gabriel was seen eyeing it with rather more apprehensiveness than his
Pequod.  I fear not thy epidemic, man, said Ahab from the bulwarks
archangel nature seemed to warrant.  When this interlude was over, Captain
frequent interruptions from Gabriel, whenever his name was mentioned, and
that-- But again the boat tore ahead as if dragged by fiends.  Nothing was
the crazy sea that seemed leagued with him.  It seemed that the Jeroboam had
stoven and sunk!  Beware of the horrible tail!  I tell thee again, Gabriel,
.. <p 315 >
archangel's denunciations and forewarnings, Macey succeeded in persuading
divinity.  Now, while Macey, the mate, was standing up in his boat's bow, and
five men to man his boat.  With them he pushed off; and, after
forth prophecies of speedy doom to the sacrilegious assailants of his
temporarily taking the breath out of the bodies of the oarsmen.  Next instant,
the luckless mate, so full of furious life, was smitten bodily into the air,
main-royal mast-head, was tossing one arm in frantic gestures, and hurling
upon the whale, and essaying to get a fair chance for his poised lance, lo!
with all the reckless energy of his tribe was venting his wild exclamations
disciples believed that he had specifically fore-announced it, instead of
event clothed the archangel with added influence; because his credulous
nameless terror to the ship.  Mayhew having concluded his narration, Ahab put
such questions to him, that the stranger captain could not forbear inquiring
terror-stricken crew from the further hunting of the whale.  This terrible
whether he intended to hunt the White Whale, if opportunity should offer.  To
which Ahab answered -- Aye.  Straightway, then, Gabriel once more started to
only making a general prophecy, which any one might have done, and so have
upon the old man, and vehemently exclaimed, with downward pointed finger
     Captain, I have just bethought me of my letter-bag; there is a letter for
chance of encountering them in the four oceans.  Thus, most letters never
delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed, depends upon the mere
or three years or more.  Soon Starbuck returned with a letter in his hand.  It
reach their mark; and many are only received after attaining an age of two
was sorely tumbled, damp, and covered with a dull, spotted, green mould, in
