however, he turned round --when, good heavens!  what a sight!  Such a face!  It
as he was, he still hugged me tightly, as though naught but death should part
in the room.  I was all eagerness to see his face, but he kept it averted for
some time while employed in unlacing the bag's mouth.  This accomplished,
in fixed reality, and then I lay only alive to the comical predicament.  For
me.  But at length all the past night's events soberly recurred, one by one,
for days and weeks and months afterwards I lost myself in confounding attempts
from me; but waking in the morning, I shudderingly remembered it all, and
savage's side, as if it were a hatchet-faced baby.  A pretty pickle, truly,
though I tried to move his arm --unlock his bridegroom clasp --yet, sleeping
there, frozen with the most awful fears, not daring to drag away my hand;
closely seated by my bedside.  For what seemed ages piled on ages, I lay
thought I; abed here in a strange house in the broad day, with a cannibal and
darkness.  Instantly I felt a shock running through all my frame; nothing was
dreams --I opened my eyes, and the before sun-lit room was now wrapped in outer
shook himself all over like a Newfoundland dog just from the water, and sat
unbecomingness of his hugging a fellow male in that matrimonial sort of style,
from the greatest subsequent misfortunes.  At last I must have fallen into a
broad awake, feeling a great deal worse than I have ever done since, even
beseeching her as a particular favor to give me a good slippering for my
feet, sought out my stepmother, and suddenly threw myself at her feet,
seemed made up touching the character of his bedfellow, and he became, as it
up in bed, stiff as a pike-staff, looking at me, and rubbing his eyes as if
signs and sounds gave me to understand that, if it pleased me, he would
bed!  the small of my back ached to think of it.  And it was so light too;
.. <p 26 >
us twain.  I now strove to rouse him --
sense of delicacy, say what you will; it is marvellous how essentially
for a resurrection.  Sixteen hours in
treated me with so much civility and consideration, while I was guilty of
great rudeness; staring at him from the bed, and watching all his toilette
dismally calculating that sixteen entire hours must elapse before I could hope
felt dreadfully.  But there was no help for it, so up stairs I went to my
very civilized overture; but, the truth is, these savages have an innate
afternoon of the 21st June, the longest day in the year in our hemisphere.  I
chimney and packed me off to bed, though it was only two o'clock in the
tell, but his next movement was to crush himself --boots in hand, and hat on
and my stepmother who, somehow or other, was all the time whipping me, or
crawl up the chimney, as i had seen a little sweep do a few days previous;
gaspings and strainings, I inferred he was hard at work booting himself;
though by no law of propriety that I ever heard of, is any man required to be
private when putting on his boots.  But Queequeg, do you see, was a creature
I well remember a somewhat similar circumstance that befell me; whether it
My sensations were strange.  Let me try to explain them.  When I was a child,
sooty, so that I thought this fire-place made a very appropriate little shrine
nothing but a small scalp-knot twisted up on his forehead.  His bald purplish
troubled himself with boots at all; but then, if he had not been still a
savage, he never would have dreamt of getting under the bed to put them on.
from the quilt, they so blended their hues together; and it was only by the
partly lying on it as the arm did when I first awoke, I could hardly tell it
figure, no two parts of which were of one precise shade --owing I suppose to
arm of his tattooed all over with an interminable Cretan labyrinth of a
     Upon waking next morning about daylight,

view into the room, and observing more and more the indecorous figure that
manikin was a real baby preserved in some similar manner.  But seeing that it
.. < chapter iv 2  THE COUNTERPANE >
particularly to get into his pantaloons as soon as possible.  He complied,
and then proceeded to wash himself.  At that time in the morning any
.. <p 25 >
contented himself with restricting his ablutions to his chest, arms, and
hands.  He then donned his waistcoat, and taking up a piece of hard soap on
the wash-stand centre-table, dipped it into water and commenced lathering his
This being told to Queequeg, he at once complied, and again politely motioned
a man smoking in bed with me.  It's dangerous.  Besides, I aint insured.
unsheathes the head, whets it a little on his boot, and striding up to the
dreadnaught, which he had previously hung on a chair, he fumbled in the
sober cannibal than a drunken Christian.  Landlord, said I, tell him to
comely looking cannibal.  What's all this fuss I have been making about,
were well worth unusual regarding.  He commenced dressing at top by donning his
must indeed be a heathen.  Going to his heavy grego, or wrapall, or
looking at him a moment.  For all his tattooings he was on the whole a clean,
the rest of his toilet was soon achieved, and he proudly marched out of the
room, wrapped up in his great pilot monkey jacket, and sporting his harpoon
man sleepe you --you sabbee?  Me sabbee plenty --grunted Queequeg, puffing
again and go to sleep.  Queequeg, look here --you sabbee me, I sabbee you --this

     I quickly followed suit, and descending into
came into the room light in hand, and leaping from the bed I ran up to him.
it with a sticking-plaster shirt.  Still more, his very legs were marked, as
malice towards him, though he had been skylarking with me not a little in the
matter of my bedfellow.  However, a good laugh is a mighty good thing, and
rather too scarce a good thing; the more's the pity.  So, if any one man, in
my linen would get on fire.  But thank heaven, at that moment the landlord
.. <p 24 >
that way.  And the man that has anything bountifully laughable about him, be
sure there is more in that man than you perhaps think for.  The bar-room was
Watch!  Coffin!  Angels!  save me!  Speak-e!  tell-ee me who-ee be, or dam-me,
the bar-room accosted the grinning landlord very pleasantly.  I cherished no
chief mates, and second mates, and third mates, and sea carpenters, and sea
dark.  Landlord, for God's sake, Peter Coffin!  shouted I.  Landlord!
from him against the wall, and then conjured him, whoever or whatever he might
monkey jackets for morning gowns.  You could pretty plainly tell how long each
one had been ashore.  This young fellow's healthy cheek is like a sun-toasted
pear in hue, and would seem to smell almost as musky; he cannot have been
three days landed from his Indian voyage.  That man next him looks a few
shades lighter; you might say a touch of satin wood is in him.  In the
he began feeling me.  Stammering out something, I knew not what, I rolled away
were, reconciled to the fact; he jumped out upon the floor, and by certain
clouds of tobacco smoke.  The next moment the light was extinguished, and
tomahawk from the table, he examined the head of it for an instant, and then
interval I spent in deliberating what to say, was a fatal one.  Taking up his
exhibiting strong symptoms of concluding his business operations, and jumping
queer proceedings increased my uncomfortableness, and seeing him now
as carelessly as if he were a sportsman bagging a dead woodcock.  All these
else singing some pagan psalmody or other, during which his face twitched
ease in manner, quite self-possessed in company.  Not always, though:
guttural noises from the devotee, who seemed to be praying in a sing-song or
and ashes a little, he made a polite offer of it to the little negro.  But the
of this head-peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension.
taking a long solitary walk on an empty stomach, in the negro heart of
.. <p 23 >
into a sacrificial blaze.  Presently, after many hasty snatches into the
Still, for the most part, that sort of thing is to be had anywhere.  These
reflections just here are occasioned by the circumstance that after we were
all seated at the table, and I was preparing to hear some good stories about
whaling; to my no small surprise, nearly every man maintained a profound
silence.  And not only that, but they looked embarrassed.  Yes, here were a
follow.  First he takes about a double handful of shavings out of his grego
manner.  his education was not yet completed.  He was an undergraduate.  If he
whom I had not as yet had a good look at.  They were nearly all whalemen;
the same calling, all of kindred tastes --looking round as sheepishly at
proved to be.  For now the savage goes up to the empty fireplace, and removing
I concluded that it must be nothing but a wooden idol, which indeed it
warrior whalemen!  But as for Queequeg --why, Queequeg sat there among them --at
the head of the table, too, it so chanced; as cool as an icicle.  To be sure
Queequeg made, staving about with little else but his hat and boots on; I
Remembering the embalmed head, at first I almost thought that this black
using it there without ceremony; reaching over the table with it, to the
imminent jeopardy of many heads, and grappling the beefsteaks towards him.
bit of mirror against the wall, begins a vigorous scraping, or rather
exceedingly sharp the long straight edges are always kept.
one knows that in most people's estimation, to do anything coolly is to do it
genteelly.  We will not speak of all Queequeg's peculiarities here; how he
country.  I quaked to think of it.  A peddler of heads too --perhaps the heads
if a parcel of dark green frogs were running up the trunks of young palms.  It
the rest into the public room, lighted his tomahawk-pipe, and was sitting
there quietly digesting and smoking with his inseparable hat on, when I
effects upon the skin.  Now, while all these ideas were passing through me
chest and arms.  As I live, these covered parts of him were checkered with
Meanwhile, he continued the business of undressing, and at last showed his
.. <p 22 >
inexplicable in him.
glimpse of so outlandish an individual as Queequeg circulating among the
polite society of a civilized town, that astonishment soon departed upon
taking my first daylight stroll through the streets of New Bedford.  In
thoroughfares nigh the docks, any considerable seaport will frequently offer
to view the queerest looking nondescripts from foreign parts.  Even in
it was the devil himself who had thus broken into my room at the dead of
Ignorance is the parent of fear, and being completely nonplussed and
similar adventure.  And what is it, thought I, after all!  It's only his
natives.  But New Bedford beats all Water street and Wapping.  In these
I bolted a dinner.  Even as it was, I thought something of slipping out of the
harpooneer, in the course of his distant voyages, must have met with a
withal; he doubtless has tarried whole weeks ashore.  But who could show a
He now took off his hat --a new beaver hat --when I came nigh singing out with
New Zealand head --a ghastly thing enough --and crammed it down into the bag.
unheeded reel about the streets, you will see other sights still more
falling among the cannibals, had been tattooed by them.  I concluded that this
Placing these on the old chest in the middle of the room, he then took the
difficulty having opened his bag, he commenced fumbling in it, and presently
men, all athirst for gain and glory in the fishery.  They are mostly young,
occurred to me.  I remembered a story of a white man --a whaleman too--who,
the axe and snatch the whale-lance.  Many are as green as the Green Mountains
whence they came.  In some things you would think them but a few hours old.
.. <p 21 >
another with a sou'-wester and a bombazine cloak.  No town-bred dandy will
compare with a country-bred one -- I mean a downright bumpkin dandy --a fellow
in the South Seas; and perhaps the sun there produced these extraordinary
tanning his hands.  Now when a country dandy like this takes it into his head
that, in the dog-days, will mow his two acres in buckskin gloves for fear of
to make a distinguished reputation, and joins the great whale-fishery, you
completely independent of the squares of tattooing.  To be sure, it might be
mere crossing of Siberia in a sledge drawn by dogs as Ledyard did, or the
to his canvas trowsers.  Ah, poor Hay-Seed!  how bitterly will burst those
straps in the first howling gale, when thou art driven, straps, buttons, and
had not been a small degree civilized, he very probably would not have
curious, certainly more comical.
of stalwart frames; fellows who have felled forests, and now seek to drop
tract of land would this day perhaps have been in as howling condition as the
when I came to know of what fine steel the head of a harpoon is made, and how
bedfellow; he's been in a fight, got dreadfully cut, and here he is, just
blackish looking squares.  Yes, it's just as I thought, he's a terrible
nor in the spring-time do they pave them with fresh eggs.  Yet, in spite of
this, nowhere in all America will you find more patrician-like houses; parks
without winking; and yet, here they sat at a social breakfast table --all of
yet carry on their bones unholy flesh.  It makes a stranger stare.  But,
for me to join him; but well knowing what was to follow, I deliberated a
good Christian; born and bred in the bosom of the infallible Presbyterian
it seems, had lent him one,
moment whether, in case he invited me, I would comply or otherwise.  I was a
Queequeg, for his own private reasons, preferred his own harpoon.  Shifting
mortal combat, and deeply intimate with the hearts of whales.  In short, like
the barrow from my hand to his, he told me a funny story about the first
for his own harpoon, because it was of assured stuff, well tried in many a
streets, -- but at seeing him and me upon such confidential terms.  But we
the people laugh?  Upon this, he told me another story.  The people of his
at Queequeg so much --for they were used to seeing cannibals like him in their
water of young cocoanuts into a large stained calabash like a punchbowl; and
this punchbowl always forms the great central ornament on the braided mat
way in which to manage the barrow --Queequeg puts his chest upon it; lashes
schooner moored at the wharf.  As we were going along the people stared; not
hammock, away we went down to the Moss, the little Nantucket packet
wedding feast of Queequeg's sister, a pretty young princess just turned of
ten.  Well; when all the wedding guests were assembled at the bride's bamboo
the boarders, seemed amazingly tickled at the sudden friendship which had
     wheelbarrow next morning, Monday, after disposing of

illuminated by the flame of the new-lit lamp.  Whether it was that this
have their grace as well as we --though Queequeg told me that unlike us, who
the ducks, glance upwards to the great Giver of all feasts --Grace, I say,
.. < chapter xiii 2  WHEELBARROW >
the island; that is, dipping his consecrated and consecrating fingers into
the bowl before the blessed beverage circulates.  Seeing himself placed next
.. <p 57 >
forehead against mine, and blowing out the light, we rolled over from each
Queequeg smoking by me, even in bed, because he seemed to be full of such
ended with his pipe's last dying puff, Queequeg embraced me, pressed his
experienced harpooneer, and as such, could not fail to be of great usefulness
assented; for besides the affection I now felt for Queequeg, he was an
luggage safe, we stood on board the schooner.  Hoisting sail, it glided down
the Acushnet river.  On
same mess with me, in short to share my every hap; with both my hands in
ship aboard the same vessel, get into the same watch, the same boat, the
I told him that whaling was my own design, and informed him of my intention
had made a harpooneer of him, and that barbed iron was in lieu of a sceptre
ships lay silent and safely moored at last; while from others came a sound of
he proposed to sail about, and sow his wild oats in all four oceans.  They
He answered no, not yet; and added that he was fearful Christianity, or
perilous and long voyage ended, only begins a second; and a second ended,
only begins a third, and so on, for ever and for aye.  Such is the
not propose going back, and having a coronation; since he might now consider
.. <p 56 >
quick foam from her bows, as a young colt his snortings.  How I snuffed that
Tartar air! --how I spurned that turnpike earth! --that common highway all over
Thought he, it's a wicked world in all meridians; I'll die a pagan.
magnanimity of the sea which will permit no records.  At the same
foam-fountain, Queequeg seemed to drink and reel with me.  His dusky nostrils
swelled apart; he showed his filed and pointed teeth.  On, on we flew, and
our offing gained, the Moss did homage to the blast; ducked and dived her
his father's heathens.  Arrived at last in old Sag Harbor; and seeing what
Christians could be both miserable and wicked; infinitely more so, than all
content to toil in the shipyards of foreign cities, Queequeg disdained no
crouching manner for some time, when all at once I thought I would open my
glances of the passengers, a lubber-like assembly, who marvelled that two
fellow beings should be so companionable; as though a white man were anything
more dignified than a whitewashed negro.  But there were some boobies and
down among the sailors, and made a whaleman of him.  But like Czar Peter
dauntlessness, and his wild desire to visit Christendom, the captain at last
mimicking him behind his back.  I thought the bumpkin's hour of doom was come.
son of a King, and Queequeg budged not.  Struck by his desperate
him overboard; suspended a cutlass over his naked wrists; Queequeg was the
himself at full length upon the deck, grappled a ringbolt there, and swore not
down in the stern, paddle low in hand; and when the ship was gliding by,
     the island.  On one side was a coral reef; on the other a low tongue of
tapping his stern in mid-somerset, the fellow landed with bursting lungs upon
his feet, while Queequeg, turning his back upon him, lighted his tomahawk

could prevail.  But Queequeg vowed a vow.  Alone in his canoe, he paddled off
of seamen, spurned his suit; and not all the King his father's influence
.. <p 55 >
His father was a High Chief, a King; his uncle a High Priest; and on the
killed that chap?  What him say?  said Queequeg, as he mildly turned to me.
desire to see something more of Christendom than a specimen whaler or two.
green sapling; even then, in Queequeg's ambitious soul, lurked a strong
still shivering greenhorn.  Kill-e, cried Queequeg, twisting his tattooed
     Queequeg was a native of Kokovoko, an

roared the Captain, I'll kill-e you, you cannibal, if you try any more of
wheelbarrow he had ever seen.  It was in Sag Harbor.  The owners of his ship,
that it was high time for the Captain to mind his own eye.  The prodigious
.. < chapter xii 21  BIOGRAPHICAL >
.. <p 54 >
part of the deck.  The poor fellow whom Queequeg had handled so roughly, was
swept overboard; all hands were in a panic; and to attempt snatching at the
but ill comprehended not a few of his words, yet subsequent disclosures,
begged him to go on and tell it.  He gladly complied.  Though at the time I
snapping into splinters.  Nothing was done, and nothing seemed capable of
being done; those on deck rushed towards the bows, and stood eyeing the boom
but he now spoke of his native island; and, eager to hear his history, I
consternation, Queequeg dropped deftly to his knees, and crawling under the
path of the boom, whipped hold of a rope, secured one end to the bulwarks,
at such times look downwards to our platters, they, on the contrary, copying
comfortableness of sharing a pipe and a blanket with a real friend.  With our
was safe.  The schooner was run into the wind, and while the hands were
confabulations, what little nappishness remained in us altogether departed,
.. <p 54 >
said, that though I had felt such a strong repugnance to his smoking in
minutes or more he was seen swimming like a dog, throwing his long arms
straight out before him, and by turns revealing his brawny shoulders through
the freezing foam.  I looked at the grand and glorious fellow, but saw no one
to be saved.  The greenhorn had gone down.  Shooting himself perpendicularly
he felt a strong desire to have a few quiet puffs from his Tomahawk.  Be it
     and self-created darkness into the imposed and coarse outer gloom of the
minutes more, and he rose again, one arm still striking out, and with the
other dragging a lifeless form.  The boat soon picked them up.  The poor

eyes; for when between sheets, whether by day or by night, and whether
till poor Queequeg took his last long dive.  Was there ever such
unconsciousness?  He did not seem to think that he at all deserved a medal
by the plunging bowsprit, that for some time we did not notice the jeering
water -- something to wipe the brine off; that done, he put on dry clothes,
lighted his pipe, and leaning against the bulwarks, and mildly eyeing those
     For this reason a sleeping apartment should never be furnished with a fire,
where the feast is held.  Now a certain grand merchant ship once touched at
.. <p 61 >

     Nothing more happened on the passage worthy
hearts' honeymoon, lay I and Queequeg --a cosy, loving pair.
of your nose or the crown of your head be slightly chilled, why then, indeed,
be comfortable any more.  But if, like Queequeg and me in the bed, the tip
the mentioning; so, after a fine run, we safely arrived in Nantucket.
contrast.  Nothing exists in itself.  If you flatter yourself that you are all
bed-clothes too, seeing that there was no fire in the room.  The more so, I
twenty years as a substitute for blotting paper.  Some gamesome wights will
tell you that they have to plant weeds there, they don't
and snug, the more so since it was so chilly out of doors; indeed out of
bending over them, as if our knee-pans were warming-pans.  We felt very nice
idol; offered him burnt biscuit with Queequeg; salamed before him twice or
head-board with our four knees drawn up close together, and our two noses
there plant toadstools before their houses, to get under the shade in summer
time; that one blade of grass makes an oasis, three blades in a day's walk a
.. <p 53 >
and we felt like getting up again, though day-break was yet some way down the
King's own house --the Captain coolly proceeds to wash his hands in the punch
made an utter island of by the ocean, that to their very chairs and tables
small clams will sometimes be found adhering, as to the backs of sea
turtles.  But these extravaganzas only show that Nantucket is no Illinois.
     We had lain thus in bed, chatting and

the New England coast, and carried off an infant Indian in his talons.  With
loud lament the parents saw their child borne out of sight over the wide
waters.  They resolved to follow in the same direction.  Setting out in their
.. < chapter xi 24  NIGHTGOWN >
.. <p 52 >
livelihood!  They first caught crabs and quohogs in the sand; grown bolder,
then, that these Nantucketers, born on a beach, should take to the sea for a
they waded out with nets for mackerel; more experienced, they pushed off in
insignificant bit of black wood?  Impossible!  But what is worship? --to do the
there open the very bottom of their souls to each other; and some old couples
round it; peeped in at Behring's Straits; and in all seasons and all oceans
peace with our own consciences and all the world.  But we did not go to sleep
the flood; most monstrous and most mountainous!  That Himmalehan, salt-sea
beyond seas for a spile to stop a leak in an oil cask; that pieces of wood in
very panics are more to be dreaded than his most fearless and malicious
idolator.  So I kindled the shavings; helped prop up the innocent little
God.  Now, Queequeg is my fellow man.  And what do I wish that this Queequeg
so many Alexanders; parcelling out among
fellow man what I would have my fellow man to do to me -- that is the will of
them the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian oceans, as the three pirate powers did
world it occupies; how it stands there, away off shore, more lonely than the
and earth --pagans and all included --can possibly be jealous of an
.. <p 52 >
his; he owns it, as Emperors own empires; other seamen having but a right
of way through it.  Merchant ships are but extension bridges; armed ones but
Church.  How then could I unite with
land like themselves, without seeking to draw their living from the bottomless
your tricks aboard here; so mind your eye.  But it so happened just then,
world, in all meridians.  We cannibals must help these Christians.
don't think thou wilt be able to at present.  I don't know exactly what's the
Queequeg.  But not a word did he reply.  Despairing of him, therefore, I
get up and have some supper.  You'll starve; you'll kill yourself,
hands.  Turning back I accosted Captain Peleg, inquiring where Captain Ahab
matter with him; but he keeps close inside the house; a sort of sick, and
of wood on his head.  For heaven's sake, Queequeg, get up and shake yourself;
previous had taken from him, before our mounting to the chamber.  That's
just where I had left him; he had not stirred an inch.  I began to grow
certainly have brought his Ramadan to a termination.  But no; there he was
not four feet off --sitting there in that uneasy position, stark alone in
the cold and dark; this made me really wretched.  Think of it; sleeping all
I went up stairs to go to bed, feeling quite sure by this time Queequeg must
unaccountable Ramadan!  But somehow I dropped off at last, and knew nothing
more till break of day; when, looking over the bedside, there squatted
a schooner or brig, confined to the north of the line, in the Atlantic Ocean
a plum-pudding voyage, as they called it (that is, a short whaling-voyage in
joints, but with a cheerful look; limped towards me where I lay; pressed
his forehead again against mine; and said his Ramadan was over.  Now, as I
long time listening to the long stories of some sailors who had just come from
may, so long as that person does not kill or insult any other person,
don't believe it's very punctual then.  I went down to supper.  After sitting a
native island.  It must be so; yes, it's part of his creed, I suppose; 
makes this earth of ours an uncomfortable inn to lodge in; then I think it
     I endeavored to prevail upon Queequeg to take a chair; but in vain.  There

lie and listen to me.  I then went on, beginning with the rise and progress
of the primitive religions, and coming down to the various religions of the
present time, during which time I labored to show Queequeg that all these
I will see to this strange affair myself.  Closing the door upon the landlady,
stark nonsense; bad for the health; useless for the soul; opposed, in
short, to the obvious laws of Hygiene and common sense.  I told him, too, that
Hussey, said I, he's alive at all events; so leave us, if you please, and
.. <p 84 >
this ridiculous Ramadan of his.  Besides, argued I, fasting makes the body
cave in; hence the spirit caves in; and all thoughts born of a fast must
intolerable, it seemed so painfully and unnaturally
religionists cherish such melancholy notions about their hereafters.  In one
vexed with him; it seemed so downright senseless and insane to be sitting
felt like pushing him over, so as to change his position, for it was almost
     one way nor the other way, but sat like a carved image with scarce a sign of

let him be, I say: and Heaven have mercy on us all --Presbyterians and Pagans
expressing the idea very plainly, so that he could take it in.  He said no;
only upon one memorable occasion.  It was after a great feast given by his
father the king, on the gaining of a great battle wherein fifty of the enemy
noise the door flew open, and the knob slamming against the wall, sent the
sudden bodily rush dashed myself full against the mark.  With a prodigious
side-pocket, here's a key that'll fit, I guess; let's see.  And with that,
there's one about a mile from here.  But avast!  putting her hand in her
ghost!  What's that noise there?  You, young man, avast there!  And running
--might as well kill both birds at once.  Kill?  The Lord be merciful to his
in great wooden trenchers, and garnished round like a pilau, with breadfruit
christians should be charitable in these things, and not fancy ourselves so
the victor's compliments to all his friends, just as though these presents
were so many Christmas turkeys.  After all, I do not think that my remarks
me a sign, with --"no suicides permitted here, and no smoking in the parlor;"
harpoon was missing.  He's killed himself, she cried.  It's unfort'nate
to one side of her nose, she ruminated for an instant; then exclaimed -- No!  I
more than one third understand me, couch my ideas simply as I would; and,
.. <p 83 >
than I did.  He looked at me with a sort of condescending concern and
heart to undervalue even a congregation of ants worshipping a toad-stool; or
gave her to understand the whole case.  Unconsciously clapping the
--and with that she seized my arm.  What's the matter with you?  What's the
of all sorts, so that the landlady should not make much profit by reason of
his Ramadan, we sallied out to board the Pequod, sauntering along, and
picking our teeth with halibut bones.
God's sake, run for the doctor, some one, while I pry it open!  Look here,
countenance.  What's the matter with you, young man?  Get the axe!  For
     which way to it?  Run for God's sake, and fetch something to pry open the

towards the ship, Queequeg carrying his harpoon, Captain Peleg in his gruff
voice loudly hailed us from his wigwam, saying he had not suspected my friend
was a cannibal, and furthermore announcing that he let no cannibals on board
apoplexy! --and with these cries, she ran towards the kitchen, I following.
in for safe keeping.  La!  La, ma'am! --Mistress!  murder!  Mrs. Hussey!
comrade standing on the wharf.  I mean, he replied, he must show his
papers.  Yea, said Captain Bildad in his hollow voice, sticking his head
from behind Peleg's, out of the wigwam.  He must show that he's converted.
     resisted.  Running down stairs, I quickly stated my suspicions to the first

the present dark Ahab slipped my mind.
sailing in Nantucket ships at last come to be converted into the churches.
have happened.  Apoplexy!  I tried to burst open the door; but it stubbornly
and no possible mistake.  Queequeg! --Queequeg! --all still.  Something must
strange, thought I; but at any rate, since the harpoon stands yonder, and he
spectacles, he rubbed them with his great yellow bandana handkerchief, and
jacket, and threw it over him, as it promised to be a very cold night; and he
.. <p 82 >

word, Queequeg, said I, rather digressively; hell is an idea first born on
it would have washed some of that devil's blue off his face.  Do tell, now,
an odd corner of the room, the key-hole prospect was but a crooked and
my lad; stricken, blasted, if he be, Ahab has his humanities!  As I walked
an apoplectic fit.  I looked through the key-hole; but the door opening into
alarmed.  I had allowed him such abundant time; I thought he might have had
I softly through the key-hole: --all silent.  I say, Queequeg!  why don't you
and rituals must be over, I went up to his room and knocked at the door; but
alike --for we are all somehow dreadfully cracked about the head, and sadly
I then asked Queequeg whether he himself was ever troubled with dyspepsia;
said Bildad sternly, thou art skylarking with me --explain thyself, thou
would follow me.  But previous to turning in, I took my heavy bearskin
content; and there let him rest.  All our arguing with him would not avail;
entertaining the most absurd notions about Yojo and his Ramadan; --but what of
and cocoanuts; and with some parsley in their mouths, were sent round with
of a deceased landed proprietor merely on account of the inordinate
only some of us cherish some queer crotchets noways touching the grand belief;
compassion, as though he thought it a great pity that such a sensible young
Humiliation, was to continue all day, I did not choose to disturb him till
     As Queequeg's Ramadan, or Fasting and
instead of a fore-mast hand; I never heard a better sermon.  Deacon
Deuteronomy --why Father Mapple himself couldn't beat it, and he's reckoned
something.  Come aboard, come aboard; never mind about the papers.  I say,
tell Quohog there --what's that you call him?  tell Quohog to step along.  By
the great anchor, what a harpoon he's got there!  looks like good stuff that;

Without saying a word, Queequeg, in his wild sort of way, jumped upon the
bulwarks, from thence into the bows of one of the whale-boats hanging to the
may tell thee the same.  I wish to warn thee.  It's a lie.  I know Captain
side; and then bracing his left knee, and poising his harpoon, cried out in
some such way as this: -- Cap'ain, you see him small drop tar on water dere?
.. <p 81 >
first Congregational Church.  Here be it said, that many tattooed savages
the ship's decks, and struck the glistening tar spot out of sight.  Now,
said Queequeg, quietly hauling in the line, spos-ee him whale-e eye; why,
it; and it did not disincline me towards him; though I felt impatience at
all describe, was not exactly awe; I do not know what it was.  But I felt
him, but for I don't know what, unless it was the cruel loss of his leg.  And
close vicinity of the flying harpoon, had retreated towards the cabin gangway.
meeting?  I never saw him going there, and I pass it every Lord's day.
child: hold ye then there can be any utter, hopeless harm in Ahab?  No, no,
there, I mean Quohog, in one of our boats.  Look ye, Quohog, we'll give ye
the ninetieth lay, and that's more than ever was given a harpooneer yet out of
     it's better to sail with a moody good captain than a laughing bad one.  So

was soon enrolled among the same ship's company to which I myself belonged.
When all preliminaries were over and Peleg had got everything ready for
all pass off.  And once for all, let me tell thee and assure thee, young man,
write, does he?  I say, Quohog, blast ye!  dost thou sign thy name or make thy
mark?  But at this question, Queequeg, who had twice or thrice before taken
been a kind of moody --desperate moody, and savage sometimes; but that will
pen, copied upon the paper, in the proper place, an exact counterpart of a
queer round figure which was tattooed upon his arm; so that through Captain
Ahab well; I've sailed with him as mate years ago; I know what he is--a
steadfastly eyeing Queequeg, and at last rising solemnly and fumbling in the
this: -- Quohog his mark.  Meanwhile Captain Bildad sat earnestly and
the waves; fixed his fiery lance in mightier stranger foes than whales.  His
     Come hither to me --hither, hither, said Peleg, with a significance in his

duty by thee; I am part owner of this ship, and feel concerned for the souls
in colleges, as well as 'mong the cannibals; been used to deeper wonders than
looked earnestly into his eyes, and said, Son of darkness, I must do my
.. <p 80 >
Ahab of old, thou knowest, was a crowned king!  And a very vile one.  When
I say; oh!  goodness gracious!  steer clear of the fiery pit!  Something of
the salt sea yet lingered in old Bildad's language, heterogeneously mixed with
Scriptural and domestic phrases.  Avast there, avast there, Bildad, avast now
ain't Captain Bildad; no, and he ain't Captain Peleg; he's Ahab, boy; and
cried Peleg.  Pious harpooneers never make good voyagers --it takes the shark
out of 'em; no harpooneer is worth a straw who aint pretty sharkish.  There
was young Nat Swaine, once the bravest boat-header out of all Nantucket and
you ever stand in the head of a whale-boat?  did you ever strike a fish?
of all its crew; if thou still clingest to thy Pagan ways, which I sadly
He's a queer man, Captain Ahab --so some think --but a good one.  Oh, thou'lt
whales, for fear of after-claps in case he got stove and went to Davy Jones.
young man.  No, said Peleg, and he hasn't been baptized right either, or
young Hittite.  What church dost thee mean?  answer me.  Finding myself thus

     and
     pay to her whalemen in bounties upwards of 1,000,000
at times affected, and in some cases seemed well nigh to overbalance all the
his hardy sobriety and fortitude, there were certain qualities in him which
incline him to superstition; but to that sort of superstition, which in some
organizations seems rather to spring, somehow, from intelligence than from
rest.  Uncommonly conscientious for a seaman, and endued with a deep natural
reverence, the wild watery loneliness of his life did therefore strongly
telling pantomime of action, and not a tame chapter of sounds.  Yet, for all
still more from the original ruggedness of his nature, and open him still
through life.  A staid, steadfast man, whose life for the most part was a
for long ages to come, and to endure always, as now; for be it Polar snow or
fit; and closely wrapped up in it, and embalmed with inner health and
starbuck, who is not afraid of a whale.  by this, he seemed to mean, not only
that the most reliable and useful courage was that which arises from the fair
means ill-looking; quite the contrary.  His pure tight skin was an excellent
bodily blight.  It was merely the condensation of the man.  He was by no
arid summers had he seen; those summers had dried up all his physical
times these things bent the welded iron of his soul, much more did his
ale.  He must have been born in some time of general drought and famine, or
.. <p 112 >
that word careful precisely means when used by a man like Stubb, or almost
any other whale hunter.  Starbuck was no crusader after perils; in him
earnest man, and though born on an icy coast, seemed well adapted to endure
at hand upon all mortally practical occasions.  Besides, he thought, perhaps,
that in this business of whaling, courage was one of the great staple outfits
of the ship, like her beef and her bread, and not to be foolishly wasted.
Starbuck, a native of Nantucket, and a Quaker by descent.  He was a long,
persisting in fighting a fish that too much persisted in fighting him.  For,
thought Starbuck, I am here in this critical ocean to kill whales for my
     The chief mate of the Pequod was

the bottomless deeps, could he find the torn limbs of his brother?  With
memories like these in him, and, moreover, given to a certain
.. < chapter xxvi 26  KNIGHTS AND SQUIRES >
.. <p 111 >
torrid sun, like a patent chronometer, his interior vitality was warranted to
experiences and remembrances as he had; it was not in nature that these
     his totality.  But the only thing to be considered here, is this --what kind
suitable circumstances, would break out from its confinement, and burn all his
courage up.  And brave as he might be, it was that sort of bravery chiefly,
upon one of those fast days for which his state is famous.  Only some thirty

     a mature man who uses hair-oil, unless medicinally, that man has probably got
spiritual terrors, which sometimes menace you from the concentrating brow of
and unhorse you with a split helmet every time.  The whale has no famous

have the heart to write it; for it is a thing most sorrowful, nay shocking,
to expose the fall of valor in the soul.  Men may seem detestable as joint
stock-companies and nations; knaves,
fellow who anoints his hair, and palpably smells of that anointing.  In truth,
knows?  Certain I am, however, that a king's head is solemnly oiled at his
man, in the ideal, is so noble and so sparkling, such a grand and glowing
queens, even modern ones, a certain curious process of seasoning them for
to throw their costliest robes.  That immaculate manliness we feel within
.. <p 111 >
facts, an advocate who should wholly suppress a not unreasonable
of a valor-ruined man.  Nor can piety itself, at such a shameful sight,
     In behalf of the dignity of whaling, I

abounding dignity which has no robed investiture.  Thou shalt see it shining
in the arm that wields a pick or drives a spike; that democratic dignity
visible in some intrepid men, which, while generally abiding firm in the
.. < chapter xxv 27  POSTSCRIPT >
.. <p 110 >
castaways, I shall hereafter ascribe high qualities, though dark; weave round
.. <p 110n. >
See subsequent chapters for something more on this head.
among them all, shall at times lift himself to the exalted mounts; if I shall
touch that workman's arm with some ethereal light; if I shall spread a
rainbow over his disastrous set of sun; then against all mortal critics bear
in my desk, then here I prospectively ascribe all the honor and the glory to
not be unreasonably ambitious of; if hereafter I shall do anything that,
boasted of taking as many walled towns.  And, as for me, if, by any
account that man more honorable than that great captain of antiquity who
pearl; Thou who didst clothe with doubly hammered leaves of finest gold, the
stumped and paupered arm of old Cervantes; Thou who didst pick up Andrew
it, since you cite it; but, say what you will, there is no real dignity in
thunder him higher than a throne!  Thou who, in all Thy mighty, earthly
marchings, ever cullest Thy selectest champions from the kingly commons; bear
coast, were the most conspicuous object in the cymballed procession.  Grant
Oh, that's only nominal!  The whale himself has never figured in any grand
.. <p 110 >
     Whaling not respectable?  Whaling is imperial!  By old English statutory

was a native of Cape Cod; and hence, according to local usage, was called a
chapters to, these men accounted unworthy of being set down in the ship's
Good again; but then all confess that somehow whaling is not respectable.
--this day darting the barbed iron from one side of the world to the other.
heathenish sharked waters, and by the beaches of unrecorded, javelin islands,
engaged for the year.  Good-humored, easy, and careless, he presided over his
was not in reasonable nature that a man so organized, and with such terrible
     blood in their veins?  They have something better than royal blood there.

Norwegian whale-hunter of those times!  And who pronounced our glowing eulogy
Your Krusensterns; but I say that scores of anonymous Captains have sailed
unpitying lance coolly and off-handedly, as a whistling tinker his hammer.
account of our Leviathan?  Who but mighty Job!  And who composed the first
     famous author, and whaling no famous chronicler?  Who wrote the first
fire salutes to the honor and glory of the whale-ship, which originally showed
telling.  Whether he ever thought of it at all, might be a question; but, if
he ever did chance to cast his mind that way after a comfortable dinner, no

tumble aloft, and bestir themselves there, about something which he would find
out when he obeyed the order, and not sooner.  What, perhaps, with other
and european men-of-war now peacefully ride in once savage harbors, let them
whale-boat as if the most deadly encounter were but a dinner, and his crew
ground with their packs; what helped to bring about that almost impious
connected with it, then am I ready to shiver fifty lances with you there,
which had no chart, where no Cook or Vancouver had ever sailed.  If American
which, on all hands, radiates without end from God; Himself!  The great God
missionaries to their first destinations.  If that double-bolted land, Japan,
an anchor in their waters.  The uncounted isles of all Polynesia confess the
.. <p 109 >
reach of his hand; and, whenever he turned in, he smoked them all out in
succession, lighting one from the other to the end of the chapter; then
Australian settlement, the emigrants were several times saved
a Dutchman, all other ships long shunned those shores as pestiferously
I say this continual smoking must have been one cause, at least, of his
peculiar disposition; for every one knows that this earthly air, whether
ashore or afloat, is terribly infected with the nameless miseries of the
enlightened world by the whaleman.  After its first blunder-born discovery by
some people go about with a camphorated handkerchief to their mouths; so,
remarkable in themselves, and so continuously momentous in their sequential
Spain, and the establishment of the eternal democracy in those parts.  That
the jealous policy of the Spanish crown, touching those colonies; and, if
pugnacious concerning whales, who somehow seemed to think that the great
common log.  Ah, the world!  Oh, the world!  Until the whale fishery rounded
was a sort of point of honor with him, to destroy them whenever encountered.
influence, which within the last sixty years has operated more potentially
crisis of the chase, toiling away, calm and collected as a journeyman joiner
of any possible danger from encountering them; that in his poor opinion, the
with the burden of life in a world full of grave peddlers, all bowed to the
requiring only a little circumvention and some small application of time and
     dollars; and every year importing into our harbors a well reaped harvest of 00847,000,000 dollars.  How comes all this, if there be not something puissant in
death into an easy chair.  What he thought of death itself, there is no
fish for the fun of it; and a three years' voyage round Cape Horn was only a
jolly joke that lasted that length of time.  As a carpenter's nails are
an enraged and mighty man.  But were the coming narrative to reveal, in any
his short, black little pipe was one of the regular features of his face.  You
and least known parts of the earth.  She has explored seas and archipelagoes
long.  They called him King-Post on board of the Pequod; because, in form,
he could be well likened to the short, square timber known by that name in
.. <p 108 >
inserted in it, served to brace the ship against the icy concussions of those
battering seas.  Now these three mates --Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask, were
likewise, against all mortal tribulations, Stubb's tobacco smoke might have
momentous men.  They it was who by universal prescription commanded three of
the Pequod's boats as headsmen.  In that grand order of battle in which
business of whaling.  One way and another, it has begotten events so
these three headsmen were as captains of companies.  Or, being armed with
their long keen whaling spears, they were as a picked trio of lancers; even
Cape-Cod-man.  A happy-go-lucky; neither craven nor valiant; taking perils as
     When close to the whale, in the very death-lock of the fight, he handled his
accompanied by his boat-steerer or harpooneer, who in certain conjunctures
provides him with a fresh lance, when the former one has been badly twisted,
or elbowed in the assault; and moreover, as there generally subsists between
the two, a close intimacy and friendliness; it is therefore but meet, that in
this place we set down who the Pequod's harpooneers were, and to what

all the rest of the banded whalemen in the world; sail a navy of upwards of
was Tashtego, an unmixed Indian from Gay Head, the most westerly promontory of
     pounds?  And lastly, how comes it that we whalemen of America now outnumber

generic name of Gay-Headers.  Tashtego's long, lean, sable hair, his high
many of her most daring harpooneers.  In the fishery, they usually go by the
wondrous whale was but a species of magnified mouse, or at least water-rat,
would almost as soon have expected him to turn out of his bunk without his
However contracted, that definition is the result of expanded meditation.  A
coupled with the first.  Almost any one must have noticed that all the fish
lungs and warm blood; whereas, all other fish are lungless and cold blooded.
the most gamesome and light-hearted of all
the whales, making more gay foam and white water generally than any other of
     not sufficiently distinguish him, since the sperm whale also has a hump,

naturalists; the Greenland Whale of the English Whalemen; the Baliene
sharp ridge.  Let him go.  I know little more of him, nor does anybody else.
him the Elephant and Castle whale.  At any rate, the popular name for him does
the northern American coast.  He has been frequently captured there, and towed
     book i. ( folio), chapter iv. ( hump back). --this whale is often seen on

always at too great a distance to study his countenance.  He is never chased;
he would run away with rope-walks of line.  Prodigies are told of him.  Adieu,
external ones already enumerated.  What then remains?  nothing but to take hold
distinctions a fiftieth part as available to the systematizer as those
Nay; what thing, for example, is there in the Greenland whale's anatomy more
basis.  On this rock every one of the whale-naturalists has split.  But it
present may be numbered: --I., the Grampus; II., the Black Fish; III., the
isolation; as utterly to defy all general methodization formed upon such a
combinations; or, in the case of any one of them detached, such an irregular
humpbacked whale, each has a hump; but there the similitude ceases.  Then,
other and more essential particulars.  Thus, the sperm whale and the
the deep, yet is he not popularly classed among whales.  But possessing all
the grand distinctive features of the leviathan, most naturalists have
kinds, presents.  How then?  The baleen, hump, back-fin, and teeth; these are
them.  BOOK I. ( Folio), CHAPTER V. ( Razor Back). --Of this whale little is
though a smaller one.  His oil is not very valuable.  He has baleen.  He is
Cetology than any other detached bodily distinctions, which the whale, in his
.. <p 136 >
in quantity, and pretty good for light.  By some fishermen his approach is
regarded as premonitory of the advance of the great sperm whale.  BOOK II.
classification of the Leviathan, founded upon either his baleen, or hump, or
allusions to some kind of whales, yet it is in vain to attempt a clear
to be vague or inexpressive, I shall say so, and suggest another.  I do so
now, touching the Black Fish, so called, because blackness is the rule among
rostrated whales, are the fishermen's names for a few sorts.  In connexion
     Of these so called Whalebone whales, there would seem to be several

face.  This whale averages some sixteen or eighteen feet in length.  He is
found in almost all latitudes.  He has a peculiar way of showing his dorsal
hooked fin in swimming, which looks something like a Roman nose.  When not
more profitably employed, the sperm whale hunters sometimes capture the Hyena
to twenty-five feet in length, and of corresponding dimensions round the
bearing for his mark that style upon his back.  From having the baleen in his
like a tall misanthropic spear upon a barren plain; gifted with such
thin, some of these whales will yield you upwards of thirty gallons of oil.
not gregarious.  He seems a whale-hater, as some men are man-haters.  Very
graved on it.  On that Ahaz-dial the shadow often goes back.  The Fin-Back is
peculiar horn being originally mistaken for a peaked nose.  The creature is
some sixteen feet in length, while its horn averages five feet, though some
the surface.  When the sea is moderately calm, and slightly marked with
be visible, this isolated fin will, at times, be seen plainly projecting from
formed by the intertwisting, slanting folds of large wrinkles.  His grand
the idea also, that this same spermaceti was that quickening humor of the
left-handed man.  What precise purpose this ivory horn or lance answers, it
waist.  He swims in herds; he is never regularly hunted, though his oil is
sword-fish and bill-fish; though some sailors tell me that the Narwhale
color, approaching to olive.  His great lips present a cable-like aspect,
.. <p 135 >
.. <p 139 >
accidentally obtained from the stranded fish; in those days spermaceti, it
and finding it sheeted with ice, thrusts his horn up, and so breaks through.
Fin-Back, Tall-Spout, and Long-John, has been seen almost in every sea and is
it is absurd.  Some centuries ago, when the Sperm whale was almost wholly
--Under this head I reckon a monster which, by the various names of
departments of natural history become so repellingly intricate.  The right
surface of the Polar Sea,
example of the Unicornism to be found in almost every kingdom of animated
determinate fact upon which to ground a radical distinction.  It is by endless
sea-unicorn's horn was in ancient days regarded as the great antidote against
poison, and as such, preparations of it brought immense prices.  It was also
agree in all their grand features; nor has there yet been presented a single
Coast, and various other parts of the world, designated by them Right Whale
itself accounted an object of great curiosity.  Black Letter tells me that Sir
Martin Frobisher on his return from that voyage, when Queen Bess did
have long pursued in the Indian ocean, on the Brazil Banks, on the Nor' West
his bold ship sailed down the Thames; when Sir Martin returned from that
voyage, saith Black Letter, on bended knees he presented to her highness a
prodigious long horn of the Narwhale, which for a long period after hung in
he has never yet shown any part of him but his back, which rises in a long
the second species of my Folios?  It is the Great Mysticetus of the English
to a land beast of the unicorn nature.  The Narwhale has a very picturesque,
     whale oil, an inferior article in commerce.  Among the fishermen, he is

is the present Cachalot of the French, and the Pottsfich of the Germans, and
is little of it, and he is seldom hunted.  He is mostly found in the
little is precisely known to the Nantucketer, and nothing at all to the
professed naturalist.  From what I have seen of him at a distance, I should
say that he was about the bigness of a grampus.  He is very savage --a sort of
article commonly known as whalebone or baleen; and the oil specially known as
there like a leech, till the mighty brute is worried to death.  The Killer
is never hunted.  I never heard what sort of oil he has.  Exception
leviathans, being the one first regularly hunted by man.  It yields the
might be taken to the name bestowed upon this whale, on the ground of its
( Right Whale).--In one respect this is the most venerable of the
.. <p 134 >
course of time, the true nature of spermaceti became
     druggists as you nowadays buy an ounce of rhubarb.  When, as I opine, in the
mounts the Folio whale's back, and as he swims, he works his passage by
flogging him; as some schoolmasters get along in the world by a similar
process.  Still less is known of the Thrasher than of the Killer.  Both are
outlaws, even in the lawless seas.  thus ends book II. ( Octavo), and begins

light, but only as an ointment and medicament.  It was only to be had from the
     The Huzza Porpoise.  II.  The Algerine Porpoise.  III.  The Mealy-mouthed
Greenland Whale which the first syllable of the word literally expresses.  In
may possibly seem strange, that fishes not commonly exceeding four or five
feet should be marshalled among WHALES --a word, which, in the popular sense,
ill effect, giving its owner something analogous to the aspect of a clumsy
OCTAVO, the Grampus; of the DUODECIMO, the Porpoise.  FOLIOS.  Among these I
whale is --i.  e.  a spouting fish, with a horizontal tail.  BOOK III.
is, that however this one-sided horn may really be used by the Narwhale
     It is chiefly with his name that I now have to do.  Philologically considered,

     them.  I call them thus, because he always swims in hilarious shoals, which
and horizontal tailed fish must be included in this ground-plan of Cetology.
he being the only creature from which that valuable substance, spermaceti, is
most majestic in aspect; and lastly, by far the most valuable in commerce;
the mariner.  Full of fine spirits, they invariably come from the breezy
circumpolar seas.  BOOK II. ( Octavo), CHAPTER IV. ( Killer). --Of this whale
     Razor Back Whale; VI.  the Sulphur Bottom Whale.  BOOK I. ( Folio),

beholding these vivacious fish, then heaven help ye; the spirit of godly
gamesomeness is not in ye.  A well-fed, plump Huzza Porpoise will yield you
one good gallon of good oil.  But the fine and delicate fluid extracted from
his jaws is exceedingly valuable.  It is in request among jewellers and
upon the broad sea keep tossing themselves to heaven like caps in a
     Whale; III.  the Fin Back Whale; IV.  the Hump-backed Whale; V. the

may never have occurred to you that a porpoise spouts.  Indeed, his spout is
so small that it is not very readily discernible.  But the next time you have
creature hitherto identified with the whale by the best informed Nantucketers;
(subdivisible into Chapters), and these shall comprehend them all, both small
pirate.  Very savage.  He is only found, I think, in the Pacific.  He is
somewhat larger than the Huzza Porpoise, but much of the same general make.
Whereas, among spouting fish the tail, though it may be similarly shaped,
times, but never yet saw him captured.  BOOK III. ( Duodecimo), CHAPTER III.
.. <p 133 >
     nor, on the other hand, link with it any fish hitherto authoritatively
from the circumstance that he is chiefly found in the vicinity of that Folio.
hitherto been designated, is that of the fishers -- Right-Whale Porpoise,

figure.  He has no fins on his back (most other porpoises have), he has a
lovely tail, and sentimental Indian eyes of a hazel hue.  But his
mealy-mouth spoils all.  Though his entire back down to his side fins is of a
rotund and jolly girth; indeed, he is of quite a neat and gentleman-like
the bright waist, that line streaks him from stem to stern, with two
whale, the Horned whale, and the Unicorn whale.  He is certainly a curious
watchmakers.
whale, to keep up the supply of cheap oil for domestic employment --as some
would be hard to say.  It does not seemed to be used like the blade of the
I take it very ill of him that he should so utterly ignore that case-bottle,
greatly admire and even love the brave, the honest, and learned Captain; yet
hand me yon top-maul.  While the mate was getting the hammer, Ahab, without
in that bird's nest within three or four perches of the pole.  But if we
speaking, was slowly rubbing the gold piece against the skirts of his jacket,
mast-headers have before now heard me give orders about a white whale.  Look
that it seemed the mechanical humming of the wheels of his vitality in him.
     and tightly, almost convulsively grasping it, addressed them thus: -- All ye
the hammer uplifted in one hand, exhibiting the gold with the other, and with
a high raised voice exclaiming: Whosoever of ye raises me a white-headed
the sun -- it is a sixteen dollar piece, men.  D'ye see it?  Mr. Starbuck,
whale with a wrinkled brow and a crooked jaw; whosoever of ye raises me that
white-headed whale, with three holes punctured in his starboard fluke --look

now half-revolving in his pivot-hole, with one hand reaching high up a shroud,
white whale, I say, resumed Ahab, as he threw down
and fiercely glad and approving, grew the countenance of the old man at every
     And what do ye next, men?  Lower away, and after him!  And what tune is
Daggoo, and Queequeg had looked on with even more intense interest and
hover.  And perhaps, at mid-day, in the fairest weather, with one
surprise than the rest, and at the mention of the wrinkled brow and crooked
jaw they had started as if each was separately touched by some specific

same that some call Moby Dick.  Moby Dick?  shouted Ahab.  Do ye know the
white water; if ye see but a bubble, sing out.  All this while Tashtego,
     Good!  cried Ahab, with a wild approval in his tones; observing the hearty

from the sea; by the sea, from the inscrutable tides of God.  But while this
too, Captain, cried Queequeg disjointedly, all twiske-tee betwisk, like
him--him-- faltering hard for a word, and screwing his hand round and round as
.. <p 159 >
a whale, men?  Sing out for him!  was the impulsive rejoinder from a score
spout is a big one, like a whole shock of wheat, and white as a pile of our
did not last long.  Vehemently pausing, he cried: -- What do ye do when ye see
among the men; till Stubb cautiously whispered to Flask, that Ahab must have
his eyes among the crew, started from his standpoint; and as though not a
white whale then, Tash?  Does he fan-tail a little curious, sir, before he
surprise, but at last seemed struck with a thought which somewhat explained
company were assembled, and with curious and not wholly unapprehensive faces,
aft, repeated Ahab.  Mast-heads, there!  come down!  When the entire ship's
     to send everybody aft.  Sir!  said the mate, astonished at an order seldom or

ocean at his feet for the visible image of that deep, blue, bottomless soul,
me; Moby Dick that brought me to this dead stump I stand on now.  Aye, aye,
     Suddenly he came to a halt by the bulwarks, and inserting his bone leg into
poor pegging
.. <p 161 >

imprecations he shouted out: Aye, aye!  and I'll chase him round Good Hope,
and round the horn, and round the norway maelstrom, and round perdition's
     the chick that's in him pecks the shell.  T'will soon be out.  The hours
here.  Perhaps they were; or perhaps there might have been shoals of them in
till he spouts black blood and rolls fin out.  What say ye, men, will ye
splice hands on it, now?  I think ye do look brave.  Aye, aye!  shouted the

inward mould of every outer movement.  D'ye mark him, Flask?  whispered Stubb;
to half sob and half shout.  God bless ye, men.  Steward!  go draw the great
their opera-glasses at home.  Why, thou monkey, said a harpooneer to one of
paced; so completely possessing him, indeed, that it all but seemed the
     could almost see that thought turn in him as he turned, and pace in him as he

short-sighted; what use, then, to strain the visual nerve?  They have left
in the way of the business we follow; but I came here to hunt whales, not my
and dented brow; there also, you would see still stranger foot-prints --the
.. <p 158 >
geological stones, with the peculiar mark of his walk.  Did you fixedly gaze,
planks so familiar to his tread, that they were all over dented, like
gentlemen, after the same meal, take a few turns in the garden.  Soon his
deck.  There most sea-captains usually walk at that hour, as country
after breakfast, Ahab, as was his wont, ascended the cabin-gangway to the
     ( enter Ahab: Then, all.) It
whispered Stubb, what's that for?  methinks it rings most vast, but hollow.

.. < chapter xxxvi 21  THE QUARTER-DECK >
men, disgusted with the carking cares of earth, and seeking sentiment in tar
seems blasphemous.  Hark ye yet again, --the little lower layer.  All visible
objects, man, are but as pasteboard masks.  But in each event --in the living
.. <p 157 >
furnishes an asylum for many romantic, melancholy, and absent-minded young
will strike, strike through
at all; and your identity comes back in horror.  Over Descartian vortices you
are these monitions at all unneeded.  For nowadays, the whale-fishery
wall?  To me, the white whale is that wall, shoved near to me.  Sometimes I
think there's naught beyond.  But 'tis enough.  He tasks me; he heaps me; I
and space; like Cranmer's sprinkled Pantheistic ashes, forming at last a
mood, thy spirit ebbs away to whence it came; becomes diffused through time
or be the white whale principal, I will wreak that hate upon him.  Talk not
to me of blasphemy, man; I'd strike the sun if it insulted me.  For could the
sun do that, then could I do the other; since there is ever a sort of fair
beautiful thing that eludes him; every dimly-discovered, uprising fin of some
he shouted with a terrific, loud, animal sob, like that of a heart-stricken
thine eye!  more intolerable than fiends' glarings is a doltish stare!  So,
so; thou reddenest and palest; my heat has melted thee to anger-glow.  But
.. <p 157 >
chase that white whale on both sides of land, and over all sides of earth,
at such a thought-engendering altitude, --how could I but lightly hold my
measure of grog.  But what's this long face about, Mr. Starbuck; wilt thou not
unworshipping things, that live; and seek, and give no reasons for the torrid
commander's vengeance.  How many barrels will thy vengeance yield thee even
souls they would rather not see whales than otherwise.  But all in vain; those
snorts to think of it.  Stand up amid the general hurricane, thy one tost
are so hopelessly lost to all honorable ambition, as that in their secret
blubber-hunters sweep over thee in vain.  Very often do the captains of such
hunt, then, the best lance out of all Nantucket, surely he will not hang back,
and blubber.  Childe Harold not unfrequently perches himself upon the
blindest instinct!  Madness!  To be enraged with a dumb thing, Captain Ahab,
leg over the top-sail yard, take a preliminary view of the watery pastures,
silence, then, that voices thee. ( aside) something shot from my dilated
nostrils, he has inhaled it in his lungs.  Starbuck now is mine; cannot
I might find there; then ascending a little way further, and throwing a lazy
Captain Ahab?  And he have one, two, tree --oh!  good many iron in him hide,
mate, Ahab did not hear his foreboding invocation; nor yet the low laugh
from the hold; nor yet the presaging vibrations of
meditativeness; and who offers to ship with the phaedon instead of Bowditch
the winds in the cordage; nor yet the hollow flap of the sails against the
eye open, and sing out every time.  And let me in this place movingly admonish
Let it go.  Look!  see yonder Turkish cheeks of spotted tawn -- living,
.. <p 156 >
before.  Ah, ye admonitions and warnings!  why stay ye not when ye come?  But
rather are ye predictions than warnings, ye shadows!  Yet not so much
predictions from without, as verifications of the foregoing things within.
and so at last mount to my ultimate destination.  Let me make a clean breast
thee; I see!  the billow lifts thee!  Speak, but speak! --Aye, aye!  thy
Southern whale-fishers are not so snugly housed aloft as Captain Sleet and his
them to produce their weapons.  Then ranging them before him near the capstan,
     mostly float.  For one, I used to lounge up the rigging very leisurely,

the group; he stood for an instant searchingly eyeing every man of his crew.
with Stubb and Flask, had thus far been eyeing his superior with increasing
Greenland-men were; yet that disadvantage is greatly counterbalanced by the
the bison; but, alas!  only to fall into the hidden snare of the Indian.
with their lances, and the rest of the ship's company formed a circle round
ye, whosoever of ye raises me that same white whale, he shall have this gold
ye!  d'ye see this Spanish ounce of gold? --holding up a broad bright coin to
Sperm Whale when beneath the surface remain, in great part, unaccountable to
contradictory speculations regarding them, especially concerning the mystic
essence sits in bearded state; an antique buried beneath antiquities, and
fantastic towers of man's upper earth, his root of grandeur, his whole awful
his pursuers; and from time to time have originated the most curious and
--however grand and wonderful, now quit it; --and take your way, ye nobler,
sadder souls, to those vast Roman halls of Thermes; where far beneath the
souls!  question that proud, sad king!  A family likeness!  aye, he did beget
popularize profundities, and all truth is profound.  Winding far down from
he had sanely brought to bear upon any one reasonable object.  This is much;
Ahab, to that one end, did now possess a thousand fold more potency than ever
now long dissemble; in some sort, did still.  But that thing of his
dissembling was only subject to his perceptibility, not to his will
cannon upon its own mad mark; so that far from having lost his strength,
throned on torsoes!  So with a broken throne, the great gods mock that
otherwise than but naturally grieved, and that to the quick, with the
had perished.  That before living agent, now became the living instrument.  If
behind; so in that broad madness, not one jot of his great natural intellect
too, all the added moodiness which always afterwards, to the very day of
sailing in the pequod on the present voyage, sat brooding on his brow.  Nor is
feline thing.  When you think it fled, it may have but become transfigured
voyage, on account of such dark symptoms, the calculating people of that
prudent isle were inclined to
collected front, however pale, and issued his calm orders once again; and
den into the blessed light and air; even then, when he bore that firm,
qualified and set on edge, for a pursuit so full of rage and wildness as the
left behind him with the Cape Horn swells, and he came forth from his dark
unrelenting fangs of some incurable idea; such an one, could he be found,
when with ivory leg he stepped ashore at last, no Nantucketer thought him
he swung to the mad rockings of the gales.  And, when running into more
fast, even there, as he sailed, raving in his hammock.  In a strait-jacket,
That it was only then, on the homeward voyage, after the encounter, that the
ahab and anguish lay stretched together in one hammock, rounding in mid
keyed in him, Ahab had purposely sailed upon the present voyage with the
one only and all-engrossing object of hunting the White Whale.  Had any one of
animosity; and when he received the stroke that tore him, he probably but
then, how soon would their aghast and righteous souls have wrenched the ship
from such a fiendish man!  They were bent on profitable cruises, the profit
to be counted down in dollars from the mint.  He was intent on an audacious,
immitigable, and supernatural revenge.  Here, then, was this grey-headed,
ungodly old man, chasing with curses a Job's whale round the world, at the
knife in hand, he had but given loose to a sudden, passionate, corporal
It is not probable that this monomania in him took its instant rise at the
and recklessness in Stubb, and the pervading mediocrity in Flask.  Such a
crew, so officered, seemed specially picked and packed by some infernal
every apparent symptom of alarm, he had several times been known to turn
fatality to help him to his monomaniac revenge.  How it was that they so
.. <p 182 >
as much their insufferable foe as his; how all this came to be --what the
of harpoons darted in the Greenland seas.  Nor is it to be gainsaid, that in
his hot heart's shell upon it.
some dim, unsuspected way, he might have seemed the gliding great demon of
the seas of life, --all this to explain, would be to dive deeper than Ishmael
personified, and made practically assailable in Moby Dick.  He piled upon the
were possessed, that at times his hate seemed almost theirs; the White Whale
most maddens and torments; all that stirs up the lees of things; all truth
abhorred white whale, he pitted himself, all mutilated, against it.  All that
and worship it like them; but deliriously transferring its idea to the
Ophites of the east reverenced in their statue devil; -- Ahab did not fall down
while yet all a-rush to encounter the whale, could see naught in that brute
but the deadliest ill.
even the modern Christians ascribe one-half of the worlds; which the ancient
identify with him, not only all his bodily woes, but all his intellectual and
all the more fell for that in his frantic morbidness he at last came to
fatal encounter, Ahab had cherished a wild vindictiveness against the whale,
Turk, no hired Venetian or Malay, could have smote him with more seeming
reaped away ahab's leg, as a mower a blade of grass in the field.  No turbaned
not but occasionally awaken in any man's soul some alarm, there was another
thought, or rather vague, nameless horror concerning him, which at times by
Arkansas duellist at his foe, blindly seeking with a six inch blade to reach
well nigh ineffable was it, that I almost despair of putting it in a
comprehensible form.  It was the whiteness of the whale that above all things
seizing the line-knife from his broken prow, had dashed at the whale, as an
dim, random way, explain myself I must, else all these chapters might be
around him, and oars and men both whirling in the eddies; one captain,
chewed boats, and the sinking limbs of torn comrades, they swam out of the
japonicas, and pearls; and though various nations have in some way recognised
of Pegu placing the title Lord of the White Elephants above all their other
of inflamed, distracted fury the
having been inflicted by an unintelligent agent.  Judge, then, to what pitches
of spears should be planted in his flanks, he would still swim away unharmed;
instances, such seemed the White Whale's infernal aforethought of ferocity,
little bruited ashore, were by no means unusual in the fishery; yet, in most
the same imperial hue; and though this pre-eminence in it applies to the
fatalities had attended his chase.  But though similar disasters, however
the same snow-white quadruped in the royal standard; and the Hanoverian flag
around suddenly, and, bearing down upon them, either stave their boats to
or right-mindedness in Starbuck, the invulnerable jollity of indifference
assaults.  More than all, his treacherous retreats struck more of dismay than
brides, the benignity of age; though among the Red Men of America the giving
knowing that after repeated, intrepid assaults, the White Whale had escaped
of the white belt of wampum was the deepest pledge of honor; though in many
according to specific accounts, he had over and over again evinced in his

has been made the symbol of the divine spotlessness and power; by the Persian
more wonderful story of the Arethusa fountain near Syracuse (whose waters
and spotted, and marbled with the same shrouded hue, that, in the end, he had
high, pyramidical white hump.  These were his prominent features; the tokens
enough in the earthly make and incontestable character of the monster to
snow-white bull; and though to the noble Iroquois, the midwinter sacrifice
of the sacred White Dog was by far the holiest festival of their theology,
steeds; though even in the higher mysteries of the most august religions it
that spotless, faithful creature being held the purest envoy they could send
     or if indeed he should ever be made to spout thick

cassock; and though among the holy pomps of the Romish faith, white is
specially employed in the celebration of the Passion of our Lord; though in
the Vision of St.  John, white robes are given to the redeemed, and the
problem to man, was never a problem to the whale.  So that here, in the real
but immortal (for immortality is but ubiquity in time); that though groves
alive; it cannot be much matter of surprise that some whalemen should go
to the Great Spirit with the annual tidings of their own fidelity; and though
same hue is made the emblem of many touching, noble things --the innocence of
lake in which the wrecks of ships floated up to the surface); and that still
inland Strello mountain in Portugal (near whose top there was said to be a
tribe; and though, besides all this, whiteness has been
it has been believed by some whalemen, that the nor' west passage, so long a
whither leads his shaft by the ever shifting, muffled sound of his pick?  Who
known to both American and English whale-ships, and as well a thing placed
whiteness it is which imparts such an abhorrent mildness, even
would seem the very man to dart his iron and lift his lance against the most
ye, ye young exiled royalties; and from your grim sire only will the old
Nor-Westers, Harmattans, Trades; any wind but the Levanter and Simoom, might
blow Moby Dick into
good ground to impeach.  secondly: It is well known in the Sperm Whale
in any other waters haunted by his race.  So that Monsoons, Pampas,
     I say three years, but I am pretty sure it was more than that.  Here are

memorable historical instances where a particular whale in the ocean has been
at distant times and places popularly cognisable.  Why such a whale became
of many other instances from persons whose veracity in the matter there is no
peculiarities as distinguished from other whales; for however peculiar in
that respect any chance whale may be, they soon put an end to his
peculiarities by killing him, and boiling him down into a peculiarly valuable
mole under the whale's eye, which I had observed there three years previous.
and last, and the last time distinctly recognized a peculiar sort of huge
there did about Rinaldo Rinaldini, insomuch that most fishermen were
feeds upon that heart for ever; that vulture the very creature he creates.
its flanks all the coasts of Africa; but to no purpose.  This man and this
light, to be sure, but without an object to color, and therefore a blankness
     miasmas, with all the other common perils incident to wandering in the heart
street, lest if they pursued the acquaintance further, they might receive a
summary thump for their presumption.  But not only did each of these famous
three instances, then, which I personally know the truth of; but I have heard

and distinctions of a name; had as much a name indeed as Cambyses or Caesar.
of nearly two years, often endangered by serpents, savages, tigers, poisonous
party, and penetrated far into the interior, where he travelled for a period
time but a vacated thing, a formless somnambulistic being, a ray of living
flinging of the two harpoons; and I think it may have been something more
from the body.  In the instance where three years intervened between the
have personally known three instances where a whale, after receiving a
they say at times assumed the semblance of a snow-white cross against the sky?
I take it --the conclusion aimed at will naturally follow of itself.  First: I
be content to produce the desired impression by separate citations of items,
four whales as well known to the students of Cetacean History as Marius or
must have been that, in Ahab's case, yielding up all his thoughts and fancies
affair.  I care not to perform this part of my task methodically; but shall
.. <p 201 >
.. <p 203 >
But as the mind does not exist unless leagued with the soul, therefore it
different
express object as much in view, as in setting out through the Narragansett
killed by valiant whaling captains, who heaved up their anchors with that
ignorance of the entire subject may
of the frantic thing, of which, for the time, it was no longer an integral.
further and more familiarly enlarged upon, in order to be adequately
one or two other things, which to me seem important, as in printed form
found in this volume; but the leading matter of it requires to be still
foregoing chapter, in its earliest part, is as important a one as will be
     So far as what there may be of a

     So ignorant are most landsmen of some of the plainest and most palpable
Ahab that had gone to his hammock, was not the agent that so caused
historical and otherwise, of the fishery, they might scout at Moby Dick as a
monstrous fable, or still worse and more detestable, a hideous and
intolerable allegory.  First: Though most men have some vague flitting ideas
of the general perils of the grand fishery, yet they have nothing like a
.. < chapter xlv 24  THE AFFIDAVIT >
recur.  One reason perhaps is, that not one in fifty of the actual disasters
and deaths by casualties in the fishery, ever finds a public record at home,
.. <p 200 >
that poor fellow there, who this moment perhaps caught by the whale-line off
the coast of New Guinea, is being carried down to the bottom of the sea by
the sounding leviathan --do you suppose that that poor fellow's name will
others to show the number of days in which whales, sperm or right, have been
days that have been spent in each month in every district, and the two
     the circular.  This chart divides the ocean into districts of five degrees
from New Guinea?  Yet I tell you that upon one particular voyage which I made
from a bed that was on fire.  Yet these, perhaps, instead of being the
of which had had a death by a whale, some of them more than one, and three
that had each lost a boat's crew.  For God's sake, be economical with your

.  By that circular, it appears that precisely
.. <p 204 >
Secondly: People ashore have indeed some indefinite idea that a whale is an
enormous creature of enormous power; but I have ever found that when
narrating to them some specific example of this two-fold enormousness, they
have significantly complimented me upon my facetiousness; when, I declare
to the Pacific, among many others we spoke thirty different ships, every one
the history of the plagues of Egypt.  But fortunately the special point I here
Washington, April 16th,
.. <p 196n. >
knowing, and judiciously malicious, as with direct aforethought to stave in,
upon my soul, I had no more idea of being facetious than Moses, when he wrote
content to recognise him by merely touching their tarpaulins when he would be
intimate acquaintance.  Like some poor devils ashore that happen to know an
case, these spiritual throes in him heaved his being up from its base, and a
common vitality to which it was conjoined, fled horror-stricken from the
lowered her boats, and gave chase to a shoal of sperm whales.  Ere long,
several of the whales were wounded; when, suddenly, a very large whale
independent being of its own.  Nay, could grimly live and burn, while the
the ship.  dashing his forehead against her hull, he so stove her in, that
in his palms.  often, when forced from his hammock by exhausting and
tortoise with mystic hieroglyphics upon the back!  In plain prose, here are
murderous savage Annawon, the headmost warrior of the Indian King Philip.  I
.. <p 200 >
and shall he escape?  His broad fins are bored, and scalloped out like a lost
time his ship was utterly lost, and forthwith forswearing the sea, he has
never tempted it since.  At this day Captain Pollard is a resident of
Ahab, the scheming, unappeasedly steadfast hunter of the white whale; this
time of the tragedy; I have read his plain and faithful narrative; I have
conversed with his son; and all this within a few miles of the scene of the
unsuppressable symptoms of some latent weakness, or fright at his own resolve,
long after midnight he would throw himself back in reveries --tallied him,
     and accursed fiends beckoned him to leap down among them; when this hell in

     totally
Constantinople?  Yes.  For the peculiar snow-white brow of Moby Dick, and his
hunters I have now and then heard casual allusions to it.  Thirdly: Some
lost off the Azores by a similar onset, but the authentic particulars of
hunter, even as a white-bearded Mufti in the thronged thoroughfares of
sloop-of-war of the first class, happened to be dining with a party of
thus marked was not altogether and originally owing to his bodily
his life-spot became insufferable anguish; and when, as was sometimes the
utterly destroy, and sink a large ship; and what is more, the Sperm Whale has
desire.  He sleeps with clenched hands; and wakes with his own bloody nails
.. <p 199 >
commodore set sail in this impregnable craft for Valparaiso.  But he was
stopped on the way by a portly sperm whale, that begged a few moments'
thimbleful.  Very good; but there is more coming.  Some weeks after, the
whales enjoy great individual celebrity --nay, you may call it an ocean-wide
whaling captains, on board a Nantucket ship in the harbor of Oahu, Sandwich
this catastrophe I have never chanced to encounter, though from the whale
mad idea, this; that in the broad boundless ocean, one solitary whale, even
vessels, were finally gone in quest of, systematically hunted out, chased and
who so long did'st lurk in the Oriental straits of that name, whose spout was
wonders of the world, that without some hints touching the plain facts,
     give way, all four boats.  Thou, Flask, pull out more to leeward!  Aye,
     All at once the out-stretched arm gave a peculiar motion and then remained
Archy.  Oh, I don't mind 'em, sir, said Archy; I knew it all before now.
aye, sir, cheerily cried little King-Post, sweeping round his great steering
fixed, while the boat's five oars were seen simultaneously peaked.  Boat and
crew sat motionless on the sea.  Instantly the three spread boats in the rear
from his closer vicinity Ahab had observed it.  Every man look out along his
oars!  cried Starbuck.  Thou, Queequeg, stand up!  Nimbly springing up on
paused on their way.  The whales had irregularly settled bodily down into the

sir, if ye please!  Halloa!  returned Starbuck, turning round not a single
steering oar as in a thousand boat lowerings ere the White Whale had torn him.
counterbalance any tendency to trip: Ahab was seen steadily managing his
arm, like a fencer's, thrown half backward into the air, as if to
distant Flask's boat was also lying breathlessly still; its commander
recklessly standing upon the top of the loggerhead, a stout sort of post
rooted in the keel, and rising some two feet above the level of the stern
.. <p 219 >
at the other end of the boat Ahab, with one
of humorists, whose jollity is sometimes so curiously ambiguous, as to put
clearly cut against the alternating depressions of the watery horizon; while
same time little King-Post was full of a large and tall ambition, so that
the triangular raised box in the bow, the savage stood erect there, and with
horizontal burst boiler out of a Mississippi steamer.  As for Fedallah, who was
strength, which periodically started the boat along the water like a
swiftly slid aft, and then erecting himself volunteered his lofty shoulders
hearing of his officers, having sided the furthest to windward, was still
enigmatical hintings of the unaccountable Elijah.  Meantime, Ahab, out of
creeping on board the Pequod during the dim Nantucket dawn, as well as the
accounting for their appearance, they were for the time freed from
this loggerhead stand-point of his did by no means satisfy King-Post.  I
spice to the fun, that no oarsman could hear such queer invocations without
of their wonder; and so what with all this and Stubb's confident way of
     some of the ship's company; but Archy's fancied discovery having some time

dry on his shoulders.  And here was Flask now standing, Daggoo with one
lifted arm furnishing him with a breast-band to lean against and steady
himself by.  At any time it is a strange sight to the tyro to see with what
triangularly platformed level with the gunwale, Starbuck himself was seen
posture in his boat, even when pitched about by the most riotously perverse
deck, this had not unreasonably awakened a sort of superstitious amazement in
the loggerhead itself, under such circumstances.  But the sight of little
ain't the White Whale to-day!  Give way!  Now the advent of these outlandish
suspected.  They were hidden down there.  The White Whale's at the bottom of
noble negro to every roll of the sea harmoniously rolled his fine form.  On
and that's what he went into the after hold for, so often, as Dough-Boy long
nobler than the rider.  Though truly vivacious, tumultuous, ostentatious
little Flask would now and then stamp with impatience; but not one added
profit hand in hand!  Aye, aye, I thought as much, soliloquized Stubb,
(Pull, my boys!) Sperm, sperm's the play!  This at least is duty; duty and
There's hogsheads of sperm ahead, Mr. Stubb, and that's what ye came for.
betrayed no such far-gazing solicitudes.  The whales might have made one of
their regular soundings, not a temporary dive from mere fright; and if that
very much, my fine fellow; only I wish you fifty feet taller.  Whereupon
.. <p 218 >

rammed home the loading with his thumb-end; but hardly had he ignited his
match across the rough sand-paper of his hand, when Tashtego, his harpooneer,
     Smuggled on board, somehow, before the ship sailed. (Strong, strong, boys! )

dropped like light from his erect attitude to his seat,
.. <p 221 >
blue, thus giving no distantly discernible token of the movement, though
they are!  To a landsman, no whale, nor any sign of a herring, would have
hailed the mate.  Mr. Starbuck!  larboard boat there, ahoy!  a word with ye,
water, and thin scattered puffs of vapor hovering over it, and suffusingly
all inferiors on their guard in the matter of obeying them.  In obedience to a
as that, Flask seemed perched at the mast-head of some ship which had sunk to
intensely heated plates of iron.  Beneath this atmospheric waving and curling,
acted like a charm upon the crew.  Then again, Stubb was one of those odd sort
Besides he all the time looked so easy and indolent himself, so loungingly
pulling for dear life, and yet pulling for the mere joke of the thing.
seemed their forerunning couriers and detached flying outriders.  All four
planting his feet firmly against two opposite planks of the boat, the gigantic
compounded of fun and fury, and the fury seemed so calculated merely as a
He would say the most terrific things to his crew, in a tone so strangely
my good boys, said Starbuck, in the lowest possible but intensest
concentrated whisper to his men; while the sharp fixed glance from his eyes
in inculcating the religion of rowing.  But you must not suppose from this
unerring binnacle compasses.  He did not say much to his crew, though, nor
     he had rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general, and especially

command, now soft with entreaty.  How different the loud little King-Post.
     That's it --that's it.  Now ye do something; that looks like it, my

Beach me, beach me on their black backs, boys; only do that for me, and I'll
children, boys.  Lay me on --lay me on!  O Lord, Lord!  but I shall go stark,
pull; never mind the brimstone --devils are good fellows enough.  So, so;
sign over to you my Martha's Vineyard plantation, boys; including wife and
eyes out!  Here!  whipping out the sharp knife from his girdle; every
.. <p 217 >
ginger-cakes don't ye pull? --pull and break something!  pull, and start your
philosophically drawled Stubb, who, with his unlighted short pipe,
soothingly sighed Stubb to his crew, some of whom still showed signs of
     be in a hurry.  Why don't you snap your oars, you rascals?  Bite something,

.. <p 222 >
Didn't I hear 'em in the hold?  And didn't I tell Cabaco here of it?  What say
into 'em.  Merrily, merrily, hearts-alive.  Pudding for supper, you know;
Three cheers, men --all hearts alive!  Easy, easy; don't be in a hurry --don't
pull, and keep pulling; nothing more.  Crack all your backbones, and bite
staring mad: See!  see that white water!  And so shouting, he pulled his hat
stern like a crazed colt from the prairie.  Look at that chap now,
come to help us --never mind from where --the more the merrier.  Pull, then, do
here; for you live under the blessed light of the evangelical land.  Only the
infidel sharks in the audacious seas may give ear to such words, when, with
tornado brow, and eyes of red murder, and foam-glued lips, Ahab leaped after
were the case, Stubb, as his wont in such cases, it seems, was resolved to
Flask has.  Fits?  yes, give him fits --that's the very word -- pitch fits
declared to be incessantly tantalizing his boat's bow with its tail --these
wondrous habitude of unconscious skill the whaleman will maintain an erect
your knives in two -- that's all.  Take it easy --why don't ye take it easy, I
bred.  Cape of Good Hope, do they call ye?  Rather Cape Tormentoto, as called
everlastingly without any haven in store, or beat that black air without any
of yore; for long allured by the perfidious silences that before had attended
proud feelings; but whereto does all that circumnavigation conduct?  Only
round the world!  Round the world!  There is much in that sound to inspire
her headway, he cried out in his old lion voice, -- Up helm!  Keep her off
.. <p 236 >
far mysteries we dream of, or in tormented chase of that demon phantom that,
had been holding the ship in the wind to diminish
shudder, sleeping in this gale, still thou steadfastly eyest thy purpose.
some time or other, swims before all human hearts; while chasing such over
that we left behind secure, were all the time before us.  Were this world an
old man had ever before evinced.  But turning to the steersman, who thus far
murmured Ahab, gazing over into the water.  There seemed but little in the
often before have noticed a similar sight, yet, to any monomaniac man, the
accordance with their singular ways, shoals of small harmless fish, that for
At that moment the two wakes were fairly crossed, and instantly, then, in
advantage of his windward position, he again seized his trumpet, and knowing
board the stranger, had not the threatening wind forbade.  But taking
moment paused; it almost seemed as though he would have lowered a boat to
first mere mention of the White Whale's name to another ship, Ahab for a
storms.  But even had this not been the case, he would not after all,
perhaps, have boarded her --judging by his subsequent conduct on similar
look-outs, while the quarter-deck hail was being heard from below.  Ship
fishermen, mildly eyeing us as they passed, said not one word to our own
and though, when the ship slowly glided close under our stern, we six men in
.. <p 235 >

here of the peculiar usages of whaling-vessels when meeting each other in
foreign seas, and especially on a common cruising-ground.  If two strangers
beasts, so torn and bepatched the raiment that had survived nearly four years
Only her lower sails were set.  A wild sight it was to see her long-bearded
rigging were like the thick branches of trees furred over with hoar-frost.
casually encountering each other in such inhospitable wilds, these twain, for
the life of them, cannot well avoid a mutual salutation; and stopping for a
moment to interchange the news; and, perhaps, sitting down for a while and
home.  As if the waves had been fullers, this craft was bleached like the
a tyro in the far ocean fisheries --a whaler at sea, and long absent from
ahead, the Goney (Albatross) by name.  As she slowly drew nigh, from my lofty
other at the ends of the earth --off lone Fanning's Island, or the far away
     South-eastward from the Cape, off the
these ships should not only interchange hails, but come into still closer,
more friendly and sociable contact.  And especially would this seem to be a

.. <p 234 >
about.  For the long absent ship, the outward-bounder, perhaps, has letters
against the leaping waves, each man had slipped himself into a sort of
on board; at any rate, she will be sure to let her have some papers of a date
other; and consequently, have all sorts of dear domestic things to talk
     tightly clenched hand.  Though the body was erect, the head was thrown back

destined, a thing of the utmost importance to her.  And in degree, all this
his very eyelashes together.  Meantime, the crew driven from the forward
and currents which have previously been spoken of.  His lantern swung from his
and coat.  On the table beside him lay unrolled one of those charts of tides
now far remote vessel; and some of those letters may be for the people of the
barometer stood, he saw him with closed eyes sitting straight in his
Starbuck forget the old man's aspect, when one night going down into the cabin
demanding repose he would not seek that repose in his hammock.  Never could
part of the ship by the perilous seas that burstingly broke over its bows,
     wax, day after day tore on through all the swift madness and gladness of the

Though, to be sure, from the small number of English whalers, such meetings
addressed his mates.  In tempestuous times like these, after everything above
both parties speak one language, as is the case with Americans and English.
sailors, but likewise with all the peculiar congenialities arising from a
bowline secured to the rail, in which he swung as in a loosened belt.  Few or
but himself.  Besides, the English whalers sometimes affect a kind of
dangerous deck, manifested the gloomiest reserve; and more seldom than ever
metropolitan superiority over the American whalers; regarding the long, lean
feathers to the sky; still beckoning us on from before, the solitary jet
sort of shyness between them; for your Englishman is rather
through numberless perils to the very point whence we started, where those
firmly grasping a shroud, Ahab for hours and hours would stand gazing dead to
and aloft has been secured, nothing more can be done but passively to await
do not very often occur, and when they do occur there is too apt to be a
foibles himself.  So, then, we see that of all ships separately sailing the
sea, the whalers have most reason to be sociable --and they are so.  Whereas,
some merchant ships crossing each other's wake in the mid-Atlantic, will
whelmed.
this round globe, they either lead us on in barren mazes or midway leave us
horizon.  But calm, snow-white, and unvarying; still directing its fountain of
through such a string of silly bowings and scrapings, such a ducking of
would be hard to say, seeing that the Yankees in one day, collectively, kill
will hold true concerning whaling vessels crossing each other's track on the
club hammer which he had snatched from a cask near by.  Heated and irritated
.. <p 250 >
domineering and outrageous manner unconditionally reiterating his command;
Grand Canal furnishes the sole transition between quietly reaping in a
all diminish the curiousness of this matter, that to many thousands of our
meanwhile advancing upon the still seated Lakeman, with an uplifted cooper's
chicha upon his silvery ruffles.  "No need to travel!  The world's one Lima.  I
Sydney men, are so much distrusted by our whaling captains.  Nor does it at
holy as the hills. --But the story."  I left off, gentlemen, where the Lakeman
rural boys and young men born along its line, the probationary life of the
seas.  "I see!  I see!  " impetuously exclaimed Don Pedro, spilling his
emphatically evinced by this; that our wild whale-fishery contains so many of
one.  In sum, gentlemen, what the wildness of this canal life is, is
shook the back-stay.  Hardly had he done so, when he was surrounded by the
thank him heartily; would fain be not ungrateful; but it is often one of the
his own canal, I have received good turns from one of these Canallers; I
terror to the smiling innocence of the villages through which he floats; his
scoundrel, and smoke him along to the quarter-deck.  At intervals, he ran
Cleopatra, ripening his apricot thigh upon the sunny deck.  But ashore, all
Canaller would make a fine dramatic hero, so abundantly and picturesquely
Steelkilt and his desperadoes were too much for them all; they succeeded in
gaining the forecastle deck, where, hastily slewing about three or four large
casks in a line with the windlass, these sea-Parisians entrenched themselves
     you pour out again."  Freely depicted in his own vocation, gentlemen, the
now menacing them with a pistol in each hand, just brought to him by the
steward.  "Come out of that, ye cut-throats!"  Steelkilt leaped on the

-- Corrupt as Lima.  It but bears out your saying, too; churches more
death would be the signal for a murderous mutiny on the part of all hands.
Fearing in his heart lest this might prove but too true, the captain a little
desisted, but still commanded the insurgents instantly to return to their
duty.  "Will you promise not to touch us, if we do?" demanded their
ringleader.
do not bow and look surprised; you know the proverb all along this coast
 "Well for our northern friend, Dame Isabella's Inquisition wanes in Lima,"
the ship, by knocking off at a time like this?  Turn to!" and he once more
raised a pistol.  "Sink the ship?" cried Steelkilt.  "Aye, let her sink.  Not
Pedro, looking downwards into the crowded plazza, with humorous concern.
.. <p 249 >
response.  The Lakeman now patrolled the barricade, all the while keeping
lower jaw of the mate was stove in his head; he fell on the hatch spouting
metropolitan freebooters
of churches.  For by some curious fatality, as it is often noted of your
the buffalo; I believe I have broken a finger here against his cursed jaw;
continual stream of Venetianly corrupt and often lawless life.  There's your
the holy-of-holies of great forests; on Roman arches over Indian rivers;
don't be a fool; forget it all; we are ready to turn to; treat us decently,
fields, unrivalled for fertility; by billiard-room and bar-room; through
     For three hundred and sixty miles, gentlemen, through the entire breadth of
promises, turn to, I say!" "Look ye, now," cried the Lakeman, flinging out
his arm towards him.  "there are a few of us here (and I am one of them) who

Canallers are; for such information may throw side-light upon my story."
it's not our interest; we want to be peaceable; we are ready to work, but we
the uproar, and sought to drag their man out of it towards the forecastle.
chicha's very fine; and ere proceeding further I will tell ye what our
     hereabouts in this dull, warm, most lazy, and hereditary land, we know but

three junior mates and the four harpooneers, who all crowded him to the deck.
us, we won't do a hand's turn." "Down into the forecastle then, down with
Canallers.  Pardon: who and what are they?" "Canallers, Don, are the boatmen
"We have seen many whale-ships in our harbors, but never heard of your
den, growlingly disappearing, like bears into a cave.  As the Lakeman's bare
head was just level with the planks,
blood like a whale.  Ere the cry could go aft Steelkilt was shaking one of
the Captain and his posse leaped the barricade, and rapidly drawing over the
slide of the scuttle, planted their group of hands upon it, and loudly
his eye on the Captain, and jerking out such sentences as these: --"It's not
by the gods.  Immediately the hammer touched the cheek; the next instant the
something down the crack, closed it, and turned the key upon them --ten in
number --leaving on deck some twenty or more, who thus far had remained
     told his persecutor that if the hammer but grazed his cheek he (Steelkilt)

last place it was feared the insurgents might emerge, after breaking through
the bulkhead below.  But the hours of darkness passed in peace; the men who
still remained at their duty toiling hard at the pumps, whose clinking and
heavy hammer within an inch of his teeth; meanwhile repeating a string of
.. <p 248 >
summoned the prisoners to work; but with a yell they refused.  Water was
then lowered down to them, and a couple of handfuls of biscuit were tossed
on the hatches and thus spoke to the officer: "Mr. Radney, I will not obey
     but it was to no purpose.  And in this way the two went once slowly round the
repeated; but on the fourth morning a confused wrangling, and then a
scuffling was heard, as the customary summons was delivered; and suddenly

forbearance had not the slightest effect, by an awful and unspeakable
deliberately repeated his intention not to obey.  Seeing, however, that his
commanding him to do his bidding.  Steelkilt rose, and slowly retreating
discretion.  Emboldened by this, the Captain reiterated his demand to the
rest, but Steelkilt shouted up to him a terrific hint to stop his babbling
the mutineers bolted up into the air from the desperate arms below that sought
to restrain them.  Only three were left.  "Better turn to, now?" said the
won't be flogged." "Turn to!" roared the Captain.  Steelkilt glanced round
ye, I'll keep ye there till ye're sick of it.  Down ye go." "Shall we?"
 "So help me Heaven, and on my honor the story I have told ye, gentlemen, is
.. <p 261 >
Steelkilt since the death of Radney."
backs.  In another plate, the prodigious blunder is made of representing the
represented lying among ice-isles, with white bears running over their living
master.  In one of those plates the whales, like great rafts of logs, are
Spitzbergen in the ship Jonas in the Whale, Peter Peterson of Friesland,
the Spermaceti Whale Fisheries.  In this book is an outline purporting to be
a Picture of a Physeter or Spermaceti whale, drawn by scale from one killed
, entitled A Whaling Voyage to
a Dutch book of voyages, A. D.
though this sculpture is half man and half whale, so as only to give the tail
mention but one thing about it, let me say that it has an eye which applied,
Harris's collection of voyages there are some plates of whales extracted from
the eye of that whale a bow-window some five feet long.  Ah, my gallant
captain, why did ye not give us Jonah looking out of that eye!  Nor are the
these unprofessional attempts, let us glance at those pictures of leviathan
whale with perpendicular flukes.  Then again, there is an imposing quarto,
     Advancement of Learning you will find some curious whales.  But quitting all

, there are plates of an alleged whale and a narwhale.  I do not wish
.. <p 262 >
.. <p 263 >

this nineteenth century such a hippogriff could be palmed for genuine upon any
to seem inelegant, but this unsightly whale looks much like an amputated sow;
and other embellishments of some ancient books you will at times meet with
and in those days, and even down to a comparatively late period, dolphins
publisher somewhere about the 15th century, during the Revival of Learning;
antique vases.  Though universally denominated a dolphin, I nevertheless call
purely fabulous creature, imitated, I take it, from the like figures on
several pictures of the different species of the Leviathan.  All these are
Prodromus whales of the old Scotch Sibbald, and Jonah's whale, as depicted
Gate leading from the Thames by water into the Tower.  Then, there are the
touching that species, declares not to have its counterpart in nature.  But
the placing of the cap-sheaf to all this blundering business was reserved for
of that Hogarthian monster undulates on the surface, scarcely drawing one
     antediluvian Hindoo.  It is Guido's picture of Perseus rescuing Andromeda
published a Natural History of Whales, in which he gives what he calls a
picture of the Sperm Whale.  Before showing that picture to any Nantucketer,
very curious touches at the whale, where all manner of spouts, jets d'eau,

Christian painter's portrait of this fish; for he succeeds no better than the
whence he derived that picture, who can tell?  Perhaps he got it as his
scientific predecessor in the same field, Desmarest, got one of his
captain had this veracious picture taken for the benefit of his marines.  To
Vishnu in the form of leviathan, learnedly known as the Matse Avatar.  But
inform us.  As for the sign-painters' whales seen in the streets hanging over
the shops of oil-dealers, what shall be said of them?  They are generally
advert to those curious imaginary portraits of him which even down to the
three or four sailor tarts, that is whaleboats full of mariners: their
deformities floundering in seas of blood and blue paint.  but these manifold
sort our noble profession
before any of them actually came into being.  No wonder then, that in some
stranded fish; and these are about as correct as a drawing of a wrecked ship,
ancient extant portrait anyways purporting to be the whale's, is to be found
but in many scientific presentations of him.  Now, by all odds, the most
its undashed pride of hull and spars.  Though elephants have stood for their
full-lengths, the living Leviathan has never yet fairly floated himself for
helmeted head like St.  George's; ever since then has something of the same
only to be seen at sea in unfathomable waters; and afloat the vast bulk of
him is out of sight, like a launched line-of-battle ship; and out of that
coins, the dolphin was drawn in scales of chain-armor like Saladin's, and a
be found among the oldest Hindoo, Egyptian, and Grecian sculptures.  For ever
him bodily into the air, so as to preserve all his mighty swells and
undulations.  And, not to speak of the highly presumable difference of
.. <p 241n. >
deck, such is then the outlandish, eel-like, limbered, varying shape of him,
that his precise expression the devil himself could not catch.  But it may be
written by one Captain Colnett, a Post Captain in the English navy, entitled

.. < chapter lv 7  OF THE MONSTROUS PICTURES OF WHALES >
curious things about this Leviathan, that his skeleton gives very little idea
of his general shape.  Though Jeremy Bentham's skeleton, which hangs for
.. <p 261 >
personal characteristics; yet nothing of this kind could be inferred from
yet, even in the case of one of those young sucking whales hoisted to a ship's
young and tender, free from the same heinousness of mistake.  Look at that
you had best provide for your summary retreat from Nantucket.  In a word,
But it was only the sound they made as they parted the brit which at all
     caused by the vast drifts of brit continually floating in those latitudes,
.. <p 275 >
and were stationary for a while, their vast black forms looked more like

     Slowly wading through the meadows of brit, the
Pequod still held on her way north-eastward towards the island of Java; a
and soundings there, but because of this remarkable meadow-like appearance,
lifeless masses of rock than anything else.  And as in the great hunting
maintained that all creatures of the land are of their kind in the sea; and
on a plain.  And still, at wide intervals in the silvery night, the lonely,
tall tapering masts mildly waved to that languid breeze, as three mild palms
stillness almost preternatural spread over the sea, however unattended with
That part of the sea known among whalemen as the Brazil Banks does not bear
.. <p 272n. >
that name as the Banks of Newfoundland do, because of there being shallows
visible sphere a strange spectre was seen by Daggoo from the main-mast-head.
God keep thee!  Push not off from that isle, thou canst never return!
.. <p 275 >
prow like a snow-slide, new slid from the hills.  Thus glistening for a
moment, as slowly it subsided, and sank.  Then once more arose, and silently
encompassed by all the horrors of the half known life.
soul of man there lies one insular Tahiti, full of peace and joy, but
stiletto-like cry that startled every man from his nod, the negro yelled out
carrying on eternal war since the world began.  Consider all this; and then
the White Whale!  Upon this, the seamen rushed to the yard-arms, as in
swarming-time the bees rush to the boughs.  Bare-headed in the sultry sun,
brilliance and beauty of many of its most remorseless tribes, as the dainty
to wave his orders to the helmsman, cast
hidden beneath the loveliest tints of azure.  Consider also the devilish
creatures glide under water, unapparent for the most part, and treacherously
motionless arm of Daggoo.  Whether the flitting attendance of the one still and
solitary jet had gradually worked upon Ahab, so that he was now prepared to
against the rocks, and leaves them there side by side with the split wrecks
the jungle overlays her own cubs, so the sea dashes even the mightiest whales
betrayed him; whichever way it might have been, no sooner did he distinctly
creatures which itself hath spawned.  Like a savage tigress that tossing in
for lowering.  The four boats were soon on the water; Ahab's in advance, and
ever; yet not a modern sun ever sets, but in precisely the same manner the
oars suspended, we were awaiting its reappearance, lo!  in the same spot where
it sank, once more it slowly rose.  Almost forgetting for the moment all
thoughts of Moby Dick, we now gazed at the most wondrous phenomenon which the
secret seas have hitherto revealed to mankind.  A vast pulpy mass, furlongs in
accursed shark alone can in any generic respect be said to bear comparative
gentle air impelling her keel, so that in the surrounding serenity her three
ocean, that with Portuguese vengeance had whelmed a whole world without
reach.  No perceptible face or front did it have; no conceivable token of
.. <p 274 >
unearthly, formless, chance-like apparition of life.  As with a low sucking
sound it slowly disappeared again, Starbuck still gazing at the agitated
waters where it had sunk, with a wild voice exclaimed -- Almost rather had I
insult and murder him, and pulverize the stateliest, stiffest frigate he can
augment; yet for ever and for ever, to the crack of doom, the sea will
of thousands of those who have gone upon the waters; though but a moment's
waves whispered together as they softly ran on; in this profound hush of the
disasters have immemorially and indiscriminately befallen tens and hundreds
analogy to him.  But though, to landsmen in general, the native inhabitants
have connected with the sight of this object, certain it is, that a glimpse
of it being so very unusual, that circumstance has gone far to invest it with
portentousness.  So rarely is it beheld, that though one and all of them
countries of India, the stranger at a distance will sometimes pass on the
them have any but
feet of Korah and his company the live ground opened and swallowed them up for
parts, with the same sort of life that lives in a dog or a horse.  Indeed, in
species of whales find their food above water, and may be seen by man in the
they believe it to furnish to the sperm whale his only food.  For though other
believe that such bulky masses of overgrowth can possibly be instinct, in all
first time beholds this species of the leviathans of the sea.  And even when
precisely, that food consists.  At times, when closely pursued, he will
leaving so much as a widow.  That same ocean rolls now; that same ocean
the monster to which these arms belonged ordinarily clings by them to the bed
thus exhibited exceeding twenty and thirty feet in length.  They fancy that
where the Right Whale is often chased.
with teeth in order to attack and tear it.  There seems some ground to imagine
whale-ships ever beheld, and returned to their ports to tell of it.  But
But his wild screams were answered by others quite as wild.  Kee-hee!
Kee-hee!  yelled Daggoo, straining forwards and backwards on his seat,
and yells the keels cut the sea.  Meanwhile, Stubb retaining his place in the
by a few rapid blows against the gunwale, then again and again sent it into
the fish's flank.  When reaching far over the bow, Stubb slowly churned his
long sharp lance into the fish, and kept it there, carefully churning and
lance (by the line attached to it), Stubb straightened it again and again,
the whale.  Pull up --pull up!  he now cried to the bowsman, as the waning
of the excited headsman; as at every dart, hauling in upon his crooked
from the spiracle of the whale, and vehement puff after puff from the mouth
men.  And all the while, jet after jet of white smoke was agonizingly shot
ranging up for another fling.  The red tide now poured from all sides of the
alternately sterning out of the way of the whale's horrible wallow, and then
after dart into the flying fish; at the word of command, the boat
air of the day.  And now abating in his flurry, the whale once more rolled
holding its place.  The boat now flew through the boiling water like a shark
much ado blindly to struggle out from that phrensied twilight into the clear
his flank, Stubb, firmly planting his knee in the clumsy cleat, darted dart
boat up to him, while yet the boat was being towed on.  Soon ranging up by
of red wine, shot into the frighted air; and falling back again, ran dripping
down his motionless flanks into the sea.  His heart had burst!  He's dead,
bowsman!  and, facing round towards the whale, all hands began pulling the
out into view; surging from side to side; spasmodically dilating and
Pacifics seemed passed as they shot on their way, till at length the whale
double, in order to bring down his centre of gravity.  Whole Atlantics and
foam; and the tall form of Tashtego at the steering oar crouching almost
interior of the sperm whale's enormous head consists.  Though apparently the
most massive, it is by far the most buoyant part about him.  So that with ease
from within, even but of a little finger, the vibrating, cracking craft
own from his mouth, Stubb scattered the dead ashes over the water; and, for
pipe.  As the line passed round and round the loggerhead; so also, just
bows; a ceaseless whirling eddy in her wake; and, at the slightest motion
.. <p 285 >
pilot-boat.
being more tight than a harpstring, you would have thought the craft had two
extending the entire length of the upper part of the boat, and from its now
speed.  Besides, such is the breadth of the upper part of the front of his
that purpose.  Your hat, however, is the most convenient.
that, in the old Dutch fishery, a mop was used to dash the running line with
it round the loggerhead, whence, by reason of its increased rapid circlings,
dashed the sea-water into it.  More turns were taken, so that the line began
an enemy's sharp two-edged sword by the blade, and that enemy all the time
before reaching that point, it blisteringly passed through and through both
chapter.  According to the invariable usage of the fishery, the whale-boat
from his mouth.  Like desperadoes they tugged and they strained, till the
steersman, and the harpooneer or whale-fastener pulling the foremost oar,
the one known as the harpooneer-oar.  Now it needs a strong, nervous arm to
strike the first iron into the fish; for often, in what is called a long
head, and such the tapering cut-water formation of the lower part, that by
a hempen blue smoke now jetted up and mingled with the steady fumes from his
to set an example of superhuman activity to the rest, not only by incredible
water; in many other ships, a wooden piggin, or bailer, is set apart for
hurled.  Stern all!  The oarsmen backed water; the same moment something
pushes off from the ship, with the headsman or whale-killer as temporary
whale might have swallowed, and which he was fearful of breaking ere he
whale relaxed in his wrath.  Pull up! --close to!  and the boat ranged along
'em they are welcome to help themselves civilly, and in moderation, but they
and rare?  What a shindy they are kicking up!  Cook, go and talk to 'em; tell
full, and dare bellies is bottomless; and when dey do get em full, dey wont
can't hear not'ing at all, no more, for eber and eber.  Upon my soul, I am
hear you den; for den dey sink in de sea, go fast to sleep on de coral, and
lantern, old Fleece limped across the deck to the bulwarks; and then, with
his shrill voice, and cried -- Cussed fellow-critters!  Kick up de damndest
my supper.  Upon this, Fleece, holding both hands over the fishy mob, raised
row as ever you can; fill your dam' bellies 'till dey bust --and den die.
Christianity; go on.  No use goin' on; de dam willains will keep a
scrougin' and slappin' each oder, Massa Stubb; dey don't hear one word; no
small bellies; so dat de brigness ob de mout is not to swallar wid, but to
berry brig mout, brigger dan oders; but den de brig mouts sometimes has de
Don't be tearin' de blubber out your neighbour's mout, I say.  Is not one
desired position.  Well, said Stubb, helping himself freely meanwhile; I
shall now go back to the subject of this steak.  In the first place, how old
sharks, sartin; but if you gobern de shark in you, why den you be angel; for
and can't be helped; but to gobern dat wicked natur, dat is de pint.  You is
     Talk to 'em gentlemanly.  Once more the sermon proceeded.  Your
muttered.  And have you lived in this world hard upon one hundred years,
cook, and don't know yet how to cook a whale-steak?  rapidly bolting another

question.  Where were you born, cook? 'Hind de hatchway, in ferry-boat,
goin' ober de Roanoke.  Born in a ferry-boat!  That's queer, too.  But I want
to know what country you were born in, cook?  Didn't I say de Roanoke
bitin' dare?  Cook, cried Stubb, collaring him, I wont have that swearing.
de tail!  How you tink to hear, 'spose you keep up such a dam slappin' and
know how to cook a whale-steak yet.  Bress my soul, if I cook noder one, he
growled, angrily, turning round to depart.  Come back, cook; --here, hand me
those tongs; --now take that bit of steak there, and tell me if you think that
steak cooked as it should be?  Take it, I say --holding the tongs towards him
.. <p 294 >
Stubb, approvingly, coax 'em to it; try that, and Fleece continued.  Do
berry joosy.  Cook, said Stubb, squaring himself once more; do you
belong to the church?  Passed one once in Cape-Down, said the old man
sullenly.  And you have once in your life passed a holy church in Cape-Town,
use a-preachin' to such dam g'uttons as you call 'em, till dare bellies is
go on, go on.  Well, den, Belubed fellow-critters: -- Right!  exclaimed
     Who dat?  Den preach to him yourself, sullenly turning to go.  No, Cook;

.. <p 296 >
can fill your dam bellies up to de hatchings, but by Gor!  you must stop dat
dare.  you hear?  stop dat dam smackin' ob de lip!  massa Stubb say dat you
one hand dropping his light low over the sea, so as to get a good view of
     Fellow-critters: I'se ordered here to say dat you must stop dat dam noise
to!  I mean when you die, cook.  It's an awful question.  Now what's your
whole air and demeanor, he hisself won't go nowhere; but some bressed angel

where you doubtless overheard a holy parson addressing his hearers as his
will come and fetch him.  Fetch him?  How?  In a coach and four, as they
you stood before, there, over against me, and pay particular attention.
you expect to go up into our main-top, do you, cook, when you are dead?

Sabbath as followed!  Ex officio professors of Sabbath breaking are all
concluded; and when, accordingly, Queequeg and a forecastle seaman came on
     It was a Saturday night, and such a
deck, no small excitement was created among the sharks; for immediately
god made him shark, said the savage, agonizingly lifting his hand up and
tackles, among other ponderous things comprising a cluster of blocks generally
painted green, and which no single man can possibly lift --this vast bunch of

.. < chapter lxvii 23  CUTTING IN >
seemed to lurk in their very joints and bones, after what might be called the
rope winding through these intricacies, was then conducted to the windlass,
.. <p 301 >
honed, just like a razor.  In its socket, a stiff pole, from twenty to
and ghosts of these creatures.  A sort of generic or Pantheistic vitality
is always kept as sharp as possible; and when being used is occasionally
insertion of the hook just above the nearest of the two side-fins.  This done,
flat, and its upper end considerably narrower than the lower.  This weapon
The whaling-spade used for cutting-in is made of the very best steel; is about
one dense crowd at the windlass.  When instantly, the entire ship careens over
seemingly their only vital part.  But in the foamy confusion of their mixed
.. <p 301n. >
down; wedder Fejee god or Nantucket god; but de god wat made shark must be
the main body of the crew striking up a wild chorus, now commence heaving in
heave of the windlass is answered by a helping heave from the billows; till
every sailor a butcher.  You would have thought we were offering up ten
the sky.  More and more she leans over to the whale, while every gasping
sight dragging after it the disengaged semicircular end of the first strip of
     the strongest point anywhere above a ship's deck.  The end of the hawser-like
And now suspended in stages over the side, Starbuck and Stubb, the mates,
sometimes stripped by spiralizing it.  For the strain constantly kept up by
the windlass continually keeps the whale rolling over and over in the water,
and struggling hosts, the marksmen could not always hit their mark; and this
thousand red oxen to the sea gods.  In the first place, the enormous cutting
.. <p 301 >
     that they cast long gleams of light over the turbid sea, these
upwards and backwards from the whale, and the triumphant tackle rises into
whalemen.  The ivory Pequod was turned into what seemed a shamble;

     O man!  in all seasons a temperature of thine own.  But how easy and how
Peter's!  of creatures, how few vast as the whale!
azure sky, upon the fair face of the pleasant sea, wafted by the joyous
breezes, that great mass of death floats on and on, till lost in infinite
black or speckled.  In life but few of them would have helped the whale, I
perspectives.  There's a most doleful and most mocking funeral!  The
sea-vultures all in pious mourning, the air-sharks all punctiliously in
stationary ship that hideous sight is seen.  Beneath the unclouded and mild
of fowls, augment the murderous din.  For hours and hours from the almost
they most piously do pounce.  Oh, horrible vultureism of earth!  from which
every rod that it so floats, what seem square roods of sharks and cubic roods
     fowls, whose beaks are like so many insulting poniards in the whale.  The
straightway the whale's unharming corpse, with trembling fingers is set down
in the log -- shoals, rocks, and breakers hereabouts: beware!  And for
timid man-of-war or blundering discovery-vessel from afar, when the distance

insatiate sharks, and the air above vexed with rapacious flights of screaming
vacuum, because their leader originally leaped there when a stick was held.
floats more and more away, the water round it torn and splashed by the
astern!  The vast tackles have now done their duty.  The peeled white body of
     Haul in the chains!  Let the carcase go
his death his ghost becomes a powerless panic to a world.  Are you a believer
in ghosts, my friend?  There are other ghosts than the Cock-Lane one, and far
in life the great whale's body may have been a real terror to his foes, in

.. < chapter lxix 2  THE FUNERAL >
.. < chapter lxx 14  THE SPHYNX >
.. <p 307 >
previous to completely stripping the body of the leviathan, he was beheaded.
years afterwards,
ween, if peradventure he had needed it; but upon the banquet of his funeral
are enabled to recognise each other upon the ocean, even at considerable
captain, the stranger in question waved his hand from his boat's stern in
distances, and with no small facility.  The Pequod's signal was at last
in the Jeroboam's boat, was a man of a singular appearance, even in that wild
small, short, youngish man, sprinkled all over his face with freckles, and
conversation was sustained between the two parties; but at intervals not
again.  Subject to this, and other the like interruptions now and then, a
some way ahead; but would be soon skilfully brought to her proper bearings
he!  that's he!  the long-togged scaramouch the Town-Ho's company told us of!
ship, the Jeroboam's boat by the occasional use of its oars contrived to keep
.. <p 312 >
According to this account and what was subsequently learned, it seemed that
an incorruptible sea and air rolling and flowing between; yet conscientiously
everybody in the Jeroboam.  His story was this: He had been originally
nurtured among the crazy society of Neskyeuna Shakers, where he had been a
the scaramouch in question had gained a wonderful ascendency over almost
crew remained untainted, and though his ship was half a rifle-shot off, and
opening of the seventh vial, which he carried in his vest-pocket; but, which,
wearing redundant yellow hair.  A long-skirted, cabalistically-cut coat of a
whaling life where individual notabilities make up all totalities.  He was a
.. <p 315 >
archangel's denunciations and forewarnings, Macey succeeded in persuading
divinity.  Now, while Macey, the mate, was standing up in his boat's bow, and
five men to man his boat.  With them he pushed off; and, after
forth prophecies of speedy doom to the sacrilegious assailants of his
temporarily taking the breath out of the bodies of the oarsmen.  Next instant,
the luckless mate, so full of furious life, was smitten bodily into the air,
main-royal mast-head, was tossing one arm in frantic gestures, and hurling
upon the whale, and essaying to get a fair chance for his poised lance, lo!
with all the reckless energy of his tribe was venting his wild exclamations
Death himself might well have been the post-boy.  Can'st not read it?  cried
ahab.  give it me, man.  aye, aye it's but a dim scrawl; --what's this?  As
he was studying it out, Starbuck took a long cutting-spade pole, and with his
knife slightly split the end, to insert the letter there, and in that way,
